<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1CA4E21-BB01-11F0-1747-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Policy</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-01T15:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-01T15:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="executive leadership,plant management,safety and compliance officers,operations teams,hr and training leads"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metR-EHS-Space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>permit-to-work-system</indexterm>
            <indexterm>learning-management-system</indexterm>
            <indexterm>incident-reporting-tool</indexterm>
            <indexterm>audit-tracking</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>safety-policy</indexterm>
            <indexterm>leadership-accountability</indexterm>
            <indexterm>incident-reporting-process</indexterm>
            <indexterm>compliance-verification</indexterm>
            <indexterm>continuous-improvement</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>zero-incident-culture</indexterm>
            <indexterm>regulatory-compliance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-safety-governance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>talent-development</indexterm>
            <indexterm>performance-metrics</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Policy"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Outlines leadership responsibilities organisational policy and compliance expectations for confined space and life saving protocols."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="leadership-roles;compliance-criteria;audit-logs;training-records;incident-register"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:EHS;usecase:safety-policy-and-accountability;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="policy,accountability,compliance,incident-reporting,zero-incident"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="define policy responsibilities and compliance expectations"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">A formal and documented risk assessment must be completed prior to undertaking any work in a confined space. Work in a confined space must be avoided and only conducted if all other options have been exhausted.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">The hazards of the confined space must be abated/mitigated prior to entry.  Examples of abatement include: atmospheric monitoring, ventilation, permit, PPE, signage, and Lockout Tagout Tryout.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">All Confined Spaces at the site shall be identified, labeled, and documented in a register.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Documented entry procedures shall be created that include the potential hazards present in the confined space and the abatement/mitigation actions to render the space safe for human entry.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Confined space entry permit documentation must be completed and authorized by a trained person prior to any work being undertaken in a confined space.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Only competently trained and properly equipped personnel shall enter a confined
        space.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure that an adequate communications system is in place to enable communication between people inside and outside the confined space and to summon help in an emergency.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">An emergency response and rescue plan shall be established prior to entry and equipment required to execute that plan shall be present before entry begins.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Access and egress points must be in place and clear at all times.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">A standby person shall be assigned to remain outside of the entrance to a confined space at all times a person is working within.</li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
