<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="c2986598-BDF2-11F0-7649-09173F13E4C5"
         xml:lang="en"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Smart Clauses</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-11-24T12:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-24T12:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="legal-counsel,contract-manager,contract-administrator,proposal-specialist,sales-manager,revops"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-contractmac-power</indexterm>
            <indexterm>power-x-author</indexterm>
            <indexterm>x-author-contracts</indexterm>
            <indexterm>clause-library</indexterm>
            <indexterm>salesforce-integration</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>insert-smart-clause</indexterm>
            <indexterm>clause-reconciliation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>clause-tracking</indexterm>
            <indexterm>version-compare</indexterm>
            <indexterm>apply-clause-template</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>contract-negotiation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>agreement-document</indexterm>
            <indexterm>clause-metadata</indexterm>
            <indexterm>negotiation-workflow</indexterm>
            <indexterm>legal-approval</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-contractmac-Power</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Smart Clauses"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Explains smart clauses — versionable, reconciled clause fragments used in agreement documents and negotiation."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="smart-clause;clause-library;agreement;version;author;approval-record"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:revenue-lifecycle-management;usecase:clause-management;industry:revenue-lifecycle-management"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="smart-clauses,clause-reconciliation,version-control,clause-library"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="describe behaviour and handling of smart clauses during document authoring and negotiation"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <conbody>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Smart clauses, like smart fields are parts of a contract that can be reconciled between
         versions of an agreement, and noted in the agreement record. This can be used during
         negotiations when clauses are redlined. Clauses that have been changed will be reconciled
         when you choose the reconciliation option at <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Check-In</b>. Clauses can only be smart in
         the context of a generated contract document.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">In the process of negotiations, a contract may get redlined multiple times. During these
            redlines, a user may choose to accept the changes made to the contract. Smart Clauses
            provide visibility into the changes made in the contract document by allowing the user
            to view the changed clauses in at <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Check-in </b>and when the clause change has been
            checked in, on the Agreement Clauses related list. </p>
      <note type="note" class="- topic/note ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">A Note on Agreement Documents and Templates</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">All generated
                agreement documents (as opposed to imported offline agreements) use document
                templates saved in Apttus Contract Management. These templates contain merge fields
                which, upon generation, pull Apttus field values from the agreement to create
                distributable documents. X-Author Contracts for Mac is only used by negotiating
                parties to modify, redline and finalize documents generated in this way. X-Author
                Contracts for Mac has no capability to create or manage templates. </p>
      </note>
   </conbody>
</concept>
