<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1CEFDF7-BB01-11F0-1239-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Operating, Loading, and Traveling </title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T12:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T12:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="Machine Operators, Drivers, Loading Supervisors, Safety Compliance Officers, Maintenance Personnel"/>
         <keywords>
            <indexterm>metr-ehs-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>material-handling-equipment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>loading-docks</indexterm>
            <indexterm>vehicle-controls</indexterm>
            <indexterm>navigation-aids</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operating-procedures</indexterm>
            <indexterm>loading-procedures</indexterm>
            <indexterm>travel-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>secure-load-check</indexterm>
            <indexterm>pre-operational-check</indexterm>
            <indexterm>loading-and-transport-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-yard-movements</indexterm>
            <indexterm>manual-handling-risks</indexterm>
            <indexterm>production-logistics</indexterm>
            <indexterm>workplace-safety</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Operating loading and traveling procedures for mobile equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Covers safe operating practices for loading travel and movement of mobile equipment including checks and load security."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="loading-bays;securing-equipment;vehicle-stability-devices;pre-op-checklists"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:ehs;usecase:operating-loading-and-traveling;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="operating-procedures,loading,traveling,mobile-equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="define-operational-procedures-for-safe-loading-and-moving-of-equipment"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Charging or refueling of mobile equipment must be performed by a competent person and in an area designated for that purpose.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Applicable safety equipment must be worn, such as seat belts, when operating forklifts and wheel/steer loaders as well as body harnesses with tie-offs when operating boom and scissor type manlifts.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Operators must not use personal mobile/handheld communication devices whilst operating mobile equipment.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Operators shall report all hazards, near misses, and incidents regardless of fault or severity.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Operators must be aware of overhead clearance and overhead objects such as ceilings, cable trays, pipe work, supporting beams, electrical cabling, lights, and fire suppression systems.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Passengers are not to ride the mobile equipment at any time, unless the equipment is designed to carry more than one person.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Mobile equipment must be clearly visible and audible by persons on foot. Operators must alert employees in the area especially when entering or exiting a building, turning, or reversing by means of reverse alarm, horn, headlights, and flashing beacons.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Always travel with platforms lowered, or so that a load may not obstruct the view from the operator’s seat.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Site speed limits must be adhered to at all times.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Mobile equipment must not be left unattended by the operator without engaging the parking brake, lowering the load, and shutting off the engine and removing the key.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">All mobile equipment cabs must be fitted with suitable protection to protect drivers from falling objects and materials.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Operators of mobile equipment must always give priority to pedestrians and stop at crossings, respecting the Space property at all times.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Operators must always look in the direction of travel when driving mobile equipment (e.g. if reversing, operators must look over their shoulder).</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Operators must not drive whilst taking a course of medication that could impair their judgement. Operators must inform their direct supervisor of any medication they have been prescribed so an assessment can be conducted.</li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
