<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1DF0BE5-BB01-11F0-1418-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T15:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T15:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="machine operators, maintenance personnel, safety and compliance officers, supervisors"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>machine-guarding-checklist</indexterm>
            <indexterm>inspection-toolkit</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lockout-tagout-kit</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-logbook</indexterm>
            <indexterm>training-guides</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>inspection-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>preventive-maintenance-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>guard-installation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>fault-reporting</indexterm>
            <indexterm>corrective-action</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>production-line-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>mro-workflow</indexterm>
            <indexterm>shift-handover</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-floor-inspection</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operator-checks</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Step by step procedures for inspecting, maintaining and implementing machine guarding controls."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="inspection-step;maintenance-task;loto-step;corrective-action"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:ehs;usecase:operational-procedures;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="procedure,inspection,maintenance"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="guide-inspection-and-maintenance-activities"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Hierarchy of Guarding<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Machine guarding and control decisions shall be made in the following order of preference:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Design out or eliminate the hazard,</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Physically “engineer out” the exposure to the hazard,</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Guard the hazard – require personal protective equipment,</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Use warning devices, or make the danger clearing apparent,</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Use warning signs,</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Use safe working practices and procedures.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Equipment guarding and other controls shall be considered in the design and
                     construction of equipment to prevent the potential for contact with moving
                     mechanical parts. Guards and other controls must be designed by an individual
                     competent in machine guarding to prevent reaching over, under, around or
                     through openings to reach moving parts or hazardous energy sources.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Hazard Assessment<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">When the operation of a machine, equipment or accidental contact with it could
                     injure the operator or others in the vicinity, the hazards shall either be
                     controlled or eliminated.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Any machine or equipment which presents hazards that must be safeguarded
                     against shall be assessed using Form EHS-02-122-F Machine Guarding Hazard
                     Assessment, or equivalent.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">New installations or modifications to existing equipment must be
                           assessed prior to install or modification.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Existing equipment must be assessed systematically based on: current
                           perception of risk, near-miss and accident data, local regulations,
                           etc.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Upon installation, machine guards and other safety controls shall be evaluated
                     for proper function and to ensure all hazards were identified and that
                     associated risks have been eliminated or reduced to an acceptable level prior
                     to the release of the equipment for use.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Machines that require guarding shall be inspected regularly. Based on the
                     results of these inspections, maintenance or replacement of guards shall be
                     conducted as necessary.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Emergency Stop Controls<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Emergency stop controls shall be provided on equipment for use in interrupting
                     power in emergency situations to avert impending or actual danger.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Emergency stop controls shall be accessible to all potential machine
                     operators, supervisors, and co-workers; labeled in the language understood by
                     employees at the site; and consistently color-coded to ensure visibility to
                     equipment operators.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Emergency stop controls shall cease the hazardous process without creating
                     additional hazards or increased risk.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">When necessary, emergency stop controls shall trigger or permit the triggering
                     of safeguards.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Disengaging emergency stops shall not restart machinery, but only permit it to
                     be restarted (use of a reset is advisable).</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The emergency stop function shall be available and operational regardless of
                     the operating mode.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Emergency stop controls shall not be modified in any way that reduces the
                     effectiveness of the emergency stop in an emergency condition.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Emergency stop devices shall be considered a back-up safety mechanism to other
                     machine safeguards and not a substitute for them.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Electrical Power/Controls<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Each machine shall be equipped with a master switch that can be locked and
                     tagged during repair or maintenance operations.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Power controls and operating controls shall be located within easy reach of
                     the operator at his/her regular workstation. Controls shall be brightly marked
                     and easily identified allowing the operator to cut off power at the point of
                     operation.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Each machine shall be provided with an appropriate electrical ground.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">A trip device, or circuit breaker, shall be provided on machinery where injury
                     might result if motors were to restart after power failures, preventing the
                     machine from operating when electricity is restored.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Guards<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All guards shall be appropriate for the hazards involved, secured in place,
                     constructed of substantial material, and have surfaces free of hazardous
                     projections.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Appropriate guards shall be provided to protect the operator and others in the
                     area from hazards such as exposed belts, pulleys, sheaves, drive shafts, drive
                     couplings, chains, rotating parts, flying chips and sparks.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">No employee shall operate and/or cause to be operated any machinery without
                     proper protective devices in place.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The operator shall never perform layout, assembly, or set-up work on the
                     table/work area when the machine is running.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Guards shall be secured in place unless equipped with an interlock that stops
                     all moving parts when opened.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Preventative Maintenance<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All emergency stop controls, guarding, and related hazard control equipment
                     (i.e., light curtains, safety interlocks, etc.) must be functionally checked
                     and maintained at periodic intervals in keeping with the manufacturer’s
                     specifications, but no less than annually. A one-year documentation history of
                     preventive maintenance and functional checks must be kept in facility
                     files.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Preventive maintenance frequency shall be set on the basis of the
                     manufacturer’s recommendation, risk assessment, and/or local regulations.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Training and Signage<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Affected employees shall be trained on the correct method of working in areas where guards or other controls are in place.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Signage shall be affixed near the point of operation to warn of potential hazards.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
