<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1AA92B2-BB01-11F0-3746-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-11-06+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-06"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="operator,maintenance,safety-engineer"/>
         <keywords>
            <indexterm>metr-bat-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>preheater-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>startup-sequence</indexterm>
            <indexterm>shutdown-sequence</indexterm>
            <indexterm>temperature-calibration</indexterm>
            <indexterm>burner-ignition</indexterm>
            <indexterm>conveyor-alignment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>fault-detection</indexterm>
            <indexterm>preventive-maintenance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>safety-interlock-check</indexterm>
            <indexterm>glass-manufacturing</indexterm>
            <indexterm>process-control</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-activity</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operational-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>equipment-inspection</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-BAT-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Cullet Preheater — Procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Step-by-step procedure for starting, operating, calibrating, maintaining, and shutting down the cullet preheater, with safety and inspection checks."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="startup-sequence;shutdown-sequence;temperature-calibration;burner-ignition;inspection-checklist"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:glass-production;usecase:procedural-guidance;industry:glassmanufacturing"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="procedure,startup,shutdown,calibration,maintenance"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="procedure"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Plant or Third Party personnel shall follow and be familiar with Procedure FUR-02-001
               Furnace Safety.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Plant or Third Party personnel shall be trained according to Training Material
               BAT-04-030 Cullet Preheater Operation and Maintenance Manual – v6, BAT-04-031 Cullet
               Preheater Operation and Maintenance Manual – v6.1, or BAT-04-032 Cullet Preheater
               Operation and Maintenance Manual – v2.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">The cullet preheater shall <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">only</b>
               </u> be operated when sufficient cullet is
               available, as specified in MSDR BAT-07-030 Cullet Preheater Operation
               Conditions.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">The cullet preheater shall shut down automatically if any condition specified within
               MSDR BAT-07-030 Cullet Preheater Operation Conditions is exceeded.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Abort conditions must be set during commissioning.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Personnel shall start and heat up the cullet preheater as specified in either Work
               Instruction BAT-03-002 Cullet Preheater Cold Startup – v2, Work Instruction
               BAT-03-006 Cullet Preheater Cold Startup – v6, or Work Instruction BAT-03-023 Cullet
               Preheater Cold Startup – v6.1 or using the automatic startup process built into the software.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Personnel shall complete Form BAT-02-030-F 001 Cullet Preheater Cold
                     Commissioning Checklist for each cullet preheater if the preheater has been off
                     for one month or longer.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Personnel shall restart the cullet preheater as specified in either Work Instruction
               BAT-03-001 Cullet Preheater Hot Restart – v2, Work Instruction BAT-03-005 Cullet
               Preheater Hot Restart – v6, or Work Instruction BAT-03-022 Cullet Preheater Hot
               Restart – v6.1 or using the automatic startup process built into the software.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Personnel shall turn off and cool down the cullet preheater as specified in either Work
               Instruction BAT-03-004 Cullet Preheater Slow Shutdown – v2, or Work Instruction
               BAT-03-008 Cullet Preheater Slow Shutdown – v6, or Work Instruction BAT-03-025 Cullet
               Preheater Slow Shutdown – v6.1 or using the automatic shutdown process built into the
               software.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">In emergency situations, personnel shall turn off and cool down the cullet preheater as
               specified in either Work Instruction BAT-03-003 Cullet Preheater Fast Shutdown – v2,
               Work Instruction BAT-03-007 Cullet Preheater Fast Shutdown – v6, or Work Instruction
               BAT-03-024 Cullet Preheater Fast Shutdown – v6.1.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">During an abort shutdown, a temporary pressure increase may be experienced in
                     the furnace and cause sting outs until the exhaust system controls
                     stabilize.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">In the event of a system shutdown, personnel shall follow the following steps:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Assess if the system can be restarted.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Restart if possible.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">If the system cannot be restarted, contact Batch &amp; Furnace Manager to perform
                     actions required to adjust furnace setup for lower inlet batch/cullet
                     temperature.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">During off-line operation, personnel shall maintain a positive pressure in the mixing chamber to ensure hot exhaust gases do not enter the cullet preheater system.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">All alarms shall be acknowledged and immediately addressed. If necessary, take action to resolve the issue.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Inspection ports shall not be opened during on-line (hot) operation unless following
               the method specified in Work Instruction BAT-03-009 Cullet Preheater Cleaning.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Only authorized personnel shall manually override automatic valves.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Batch material shall not be run through the cullet preheater when the cullet preheater is hot.</li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
