<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="d13aAjan742"
         xml:lang="en"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">FAQs</title>
   <prolog class="- topic/prolog ">
      <author class="- topic/author ">Metapercept</author>
      <critdates class="- topic/critdates ">
         <created date="2025-11-21+05:30" class="- topic/created "/>
         <revised modified="2025-05-05" class="- topic/revised "/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata class="- topic/metadata ">
         <audience type="role"
                   platform="web"
                   product="metR-Power-Source_To_Pay_User_Guide_Final"
                   class="- topic/audience "/>
         <keywords class="- topic/keywords ">
            <keyword class="- topic/keyword "/>
            <indexterm class="- topic/indexterm "/>
            <indexterm class="- topic/indexterm "/>
         </keywords>
         <othermeta name="title" content="" class="- topic/othermeta "/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="" class="- topic/othermeta "/>
      </metadata>
      <resourceid appid=""
                  appname=""
                  id=""
                  ux-source-priority="topic-and-map"
                  class="- topic/resourceid "/>
   </prolog>
   <conbody>
      <p class="- topic/p ">This section contains frequently asked questions. It also provides the solution to frequently occurring errors. This FAQs section is for Suppliers only.</p>
      <ul id="ul_ftx_mql_zdc" class="- topic/ul ">
         <li class="- topic/li ">
            <p class="- topic/p ">Why can't I click RFI, RFQ, or Award tab?</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">You can view the sourcing event if the event is published by the buyer and if you're
               invited to any particular event.</p>
         </li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">
            <p class="- topic/p ">Can I edit the response after I've submitted the response?</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">Yes, you can edit the RFI or RFQ response, even after you've submitted the response.
               You can edit your responses until the RFI or RFQ deadline ends.</p>
         </li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">
            <p class="- topic/p ">How do I know the current status of the sourcing event?</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">The Event Status, Event Phase, and Phase Status indicate the current state of the
               sourcing event.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">For more information on Event Status, Event Phase, and Phase Status, refer to <xref href="../managing_strategic_sourci_69206019/69206019.dita"
                     format="dita"
                     class="- topic/xref ">Managing
                  Strategic Sourcing</xref>.</p>
         </li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">
            <p class="- topic/p ">How do I self-register myself with the system of my buyer?</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">Your buyer will provide you a self-registration link. It can be either or on your
               buyer's website or your buyer sends you an email containing the link.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">If you still don't get the link, contact your buyer.</p>
         </li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">
            <p class="- topic/p ">Why do I see other surveys in my self-registration form?</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">The surveys depend on the type of supplier. A general information survey is added to
               your self-registration form by default. The other surveys have been added by your
               buyer. You must respond to all the mentioned surveys, in order to complete your
               self-registration form. You must submit the form to the buyer to get evaluated.</p>
         </li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">
            <p class="- topic/p ">How do I create a prospective supplier request?</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">You, as a supplier, can not create a prospective supplier request. Instead, try
               self-registering yourselves with the buyer.</p>
         </li>
      </ul>
   </conbody>
</concept>
