<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1D66283-BB01-11F0-1802-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T13:52:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T13:52:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="machine-operators,maintenance-personnel,industrial-engineers,reliability-engineers,safety-compliance-officers"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-ehs-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lifting-equipment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hoists-and-cranes</indexterm>
            <indexterm>forklift-fleet</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lifting-attachments</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>lifting-and-supporting-loads</indexterm>
            <indexterm>prelift-inspection</indexterm>
            <indexterm>load-planning</indexterm>
            <indexterm>permit-to-work</indexterm>
            <indexterm>safe-lifting-procedure</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>material-handling</indexterm>
            <indexterm>glass-manufacturing-plant</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-maintenance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-and-mro-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>heavy-machinery-safety</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="procedure for lifting and supporting loads"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="step by step procedure to safely lift and support loads in the plant environment"/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="crane;hoist;slings;load;operator"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:ehs/usecase:safe lifting procedure;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="lifting procedure,pre lift check,load securing,operator responsibilities"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="guide operators and maintenance staff to perform safe lifts"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Alternatives to Lifting and Supporting Loads<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Prior to planning a lift, consideration shall be given to alternative methods for the task at hand. If it is possible to complete the task without using lifting equipment or the need for a lift can be designed out, then preference shall be given to these alternative methods.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Estimating the Weight of Loads<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Do not lift until the load weights have been determined. When estimating load weights, operators will stay within 50% of the crane’s rated capacity or manufacturer recommendation. If there are ever discrepancies, the lowest determined weight shall be used. Never attempt a load lift based solely on a guess. </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The following methods may be used to estimate the weight of loads:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Check equipment classification/load plates.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Check shipping papers.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Consult with the equipment manufacturer.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Estimate weight using weights of similar loads.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Use a dynamometer.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Use industry standard tables or charts. </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Crane and Lifting Equipment Operations<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">While operating cranes and lifting equipment, personnel shall perform safe operating practices using Work Instruction EHS-03-007 Lifting and Supporting Loads or equivalent.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Crane and Equipment Inspections<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Pre-use inspections.</i> Cranes and equipment (hoists, slings, hooks, etc.) shall be inspected by the operator or designated trained employee or contractor before each use according to Form EHS-02-105-F 001 Lifting and Supporting Loads Pre-Use Inspection Checklist, or equivalent.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Periodic inspections</i>. Supervisors will determine and schedule additional inspections periodically to be completed by a third party contractor, where service conditions warrant. A thorough periodic inspection shall be made on a regular basis, to be determined on the basis of the following:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Frequency of crane use</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Severity of service conditions</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Nature of lifts being made</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Experience gained on the service life of cranes used in similar circumstances, as well as consensus standards and manufacturer’s recommendations</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Damaged/unserviceable cranes</i>. Cranes and lifting equipment found to be damaged or unserviceable shall be immediately removed from service and tagged with a visual identifier to indicate status.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Crane Inventory<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">A running inventory list of all crane and lifting equipment shall be maintained using Form EHS-02-105-F 002 Lifting and Supporting Loads Inventory, or equivalent.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
