<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1D0C3C2-BB01-11F0-1252-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Requirements</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T12:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T12:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="safety compliance officers,maintenance personnel,industrial engineers,operations supervisors,management"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>electrical-systems</indexterm>
            <indexterm>isolation-devices</indexterm>
            <indexterm>testing-equipment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lockout-tagout-kits</indexterm>
            <indexterm>protective-equipment</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>electrical-safety-requirements</indexterm>
            <indexterm>isolation-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>testing-and-verification</indexterm>
            <indexterm>permit-to-work-electrical</indexterm>
            <indexterm>competence-requirements</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>electrical-work</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-and-mro</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>glass-manufacturing</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operational-safety</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Requirements for electrical safety and life saving protocol"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Mandatory requirements for safe electrical work including isolation, verification, competence and permitted activities."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="electrical circuit;isolation point;tester;competent person;permit"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:ehs;usecase:electrical-safety;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="electrical-safety,isolation,verification,permit-to-work"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="define technical and administrative requirements for safe electrical work"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Energized parts that personnel may come into contact with shall be de-energized and checked, at a minimum, before any work commences. <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Every electrical conductor or circuit part is considered energized until proven otherwise.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Prior to any work activity, a qualified employee shall open (de-energize) and voltage test each phase conductor or circuit part with an adequately rated voltage detector to verify the equipment is de-energized. Before and after each test, personnel shall determine that the voltage detector is operating correctly by checking the tester on a known energized voltage source.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Conductors and electrical parts that have been de-energized shall be locked out. Conductors or electrical parts that have been de-energized but not locked out shall be considered energized.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">When a task cannot be performed in a de-energized state, work on energized equipment shall be limited to testing and troubleshooting by a qualified person who is knowledgeable in the design and operation of the equipment/system, in the hazards involved, and in how to avoid hazards of working on or near exposed parts or moving equipment.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The qualified person performing the troubleshooting shall complete a Risk Assessment, utilize appropriate safe work practices, utilize insulating and shielding materials, use insulated tools, and wear the designated personal protective equipment for the energized work task.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Before starting each job, the supervisor or designated employee shall conduct a job briefing, or review of Risk Assessment, with other personnel involved in the task.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The briefing shall cover such subjects as hazards associated with the job, any work procedures involved, special precautions, energy source controls, and PPE requirements. If the work or operations to be performed during the work day or shift are repetitive and similar, at least one job briefing shall be conducted before the start of the first job of the day or shift.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Additional job briefings shall be held if significant changes might affect the safety of employees during the course of the work.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A brief discussion shall be satisfactory if the work involved is routine and if the employee, by virtue of training and experience, can reasonably be expected to recognize and avoid the hazards involved in the job.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A more extensive discussion shall be conducted if the work is complicated or particularly hazardous, or the employee cannot be expected to recognize and avoid the hazards involved in the job.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Persons exposed to energized or potentially energized electrical equipment shall wear appropriate fire-resistant and explosive-atmosphere-compatible clothing and materials (e.g., no electrostatic clothing such as wool, no clothing made of synthetic materials such as polyester or nylon, no lighters in pockets, etc.), along with additional required PPE (e.g., safety glasses, safety boots, hard hat or bump cap, etc.).<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Anything that may present an electrical contact hazard, such as jewelry or belts, shall not be worn.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Any work area where exposed, energized conductors or live parts are present shall have signage, be barricaded and controlled to prevent affected persons from contacting such equipment. If signs and barricades do not provide sufficient warning and protection from electrical hazards, an attendant shall be stationed to warn and protect employees.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Barricades shall be placed no closer than the default electrical arc flash boundaries indicated by local legislation.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Unqualified personnel performing maintenance, repairs, or modifications shall be protected from arc flash hazards and contact with exposed, energized parts. Barricading with safety signs and isolating or insulating are acceptable methods of protection.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">All entrance doors to rooms, buildings, or enclosures containing exposed live parts shall be kept locked. All substation gates shall be kept locked.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Personnel working in areas within the arc flash hazard boundary, or where potential electrical hazards exist, shall use the appropriate PPE as defined by local legislation.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Electrical panel boards, switch boards, and motor control centers shall have an arc flash hazard analysis completed for all new installations or major modifications to existing installations.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Electrical apparatuses shall be labeled with the appropriate arc flash hazard warning.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Clear access in front of all electrical panel boards, switchboards, and disconnects shall be maintained at all times. Specific distances shall be determined based on local legislation. </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">All electrical test instruments, portable tools, extension cords, and equipment shall be visually inspected before each use. Equipment shall be fully tested and calibrated, if possible, per the manufacturers’ recommendation. Documentation of calibration shall be maintained.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Damaged equipment shall be repaired or removed from service.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Damaged insulated tools shall be considered un-insulated and removed from service.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Extension cords shall not be used in lieu of permanent wiring and must be unplugged when not in use.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Extension cords shall be placed so they do not cause slip, trip, or fall hazards. Extension cords shall not be placed across walkways, in aisles, or in other areas used by mechanical equipment or vehicles unless the cords are protected from damage. Extension cords must be protected from pinch points and sharp corners.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Adequate illumination is required to perform work safely when operating or servicing any electrical equipment.</li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
