<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="c259FCE5-BDF2-11F0-2687-09173F13E4C5"
         xml:lang="en"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Duplicate Product Validations</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Yashshree</author>
      <critdates class="- topic/critdates ">
         <created date="2025-11-26+05:30" class="- topic/created "/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-26" class="- topic/revised "/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="production,maintenance,quality,safety,engineering,management"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-cim-power</indexterm>
            <indexterm>customer-incentive-manager</indexterm>
            <indexterm>duplicate-product-checker</indexterm>
            <indexterm>product-validation-service</indexterm>
            <indexterm>exclusion-list-engine</indexterm>
            <indexterm>bill-to-product-auditor</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>detect-duplicate-products</indexterm>
            <indexterm>product-exclusion-evaluation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>bill-to-account-scope-check</indexterm>
            <indexterm>agreement-period-product-filter</indexterm>
            <indexterm>product-validation-rule-application</indexterm>
            <indexterm>product-uniqueness-enforcement</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>revenue-lifecycle-management</indexterm>
            <indexterm>revenue-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>enterprise-software</indexterm>
            <indexterm>bill-to-account</indexterm>
            <indexterm>product-catalog</indexterm>
            <indexterm>agreement-date-period</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-CIM-Power</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Duplicate Product Validations"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Validate that active products are not duplicated for the same bill-to account within the agreement date period, respecting excluded products."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="Agreement;Program;Product;Bill-to Account;Exclusion List;Validation Engine"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:revenue-operations;usecase:documentation-access;industry:revenue-lifecycle-management"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="duplicate-product,product-validation,exclusion-list,bill-to-account,product-uniqueness,agreement-period"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="prevent-duplicate-product-entries-per-account"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <conbody>
      <p class="- topic/p ">For each agreement, validate features checks that across programs, you do not have duplicate products and participants for the same Bill-to Account within the same agreement date period. Validations are performed at the SKU level.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">For different kinds of programs, validation for different products is done as follows:</p>
      <ul class="- topic/ul ">
         <li class="- topic/li ">Package Saving Program - For package saving programs, you can have overlapping products <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">between primary and secondary packages of the same section</b>. The same product can be a part of the primary as well as a secondary package within the program. A validation error is only thrown if the product is duplicated in the same package.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">Bundle Saving Program - In bundle saving programs, duplicate child products are allowed but you cannot have duplicate top line products. Between bundle saving program and other programs, you cannot have any duplicate products.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">Reward Saving Program - In reward saving program, only benefit products are validated.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">Partnership Saving Program - In partnership saving program, you cannot have duplicate products in parent line and child lines of the program.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">Month End Billing Program - In Month End Billing program, you cannot have duplicate products across programs.</li>
      </ul>
      <note type="note" class="- topic/note ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">Duplicate product validation feature does not consider excluded products.</p>
      </note>
   </conbody>
</concept>
