<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1A8A7E6-BB01-11F0-1476-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-11-06+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-06"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="operator,maintenance,safety-engineer"/>
         <keywords>
            <indexterm>metr-bat-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>batch-house-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operation-startup</indexterm>
            <indexterm>raw-material-loading</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hopper-cleaning</indexterm>
            <indexterm>mixing-sequence</indexterm>
            <indexterm>weighing-calibration</indexterm>
            <indexterm>system-monitoring</indexterm>
            <indexterm>emergency-stop</indexterm>
            <indexterm>shutdown-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>glass-manufacturing</indexterm>
            <indexterm>process-control</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>equipment-maintenance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>quality-assurance</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-BAT-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Batch House Operation — Procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Step-by-step operating procedure for batch house systems covering startup, weighing, mixing, transfer, and shutdown."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="operation-sequence;weighing-system;hopper;conveyor;control-panel;shutdown-signal"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:glass-production;usecase:procedural-guidance;industry:glassmanufacturing"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="procedure,batch-house,operation,weighing,mixing"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="procedure"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Each Plant shall designate a person responsible for the Batch House. In the majority of cases, this person is the Batch &amp; Furnace Manager.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">The person responsible for the Batch House shall comply with the Roles
               &amp; Responsibilities associated with the Batch House, as defined in Procedure
               FUR-02-022 Batch and Furnace Manager Responsibilities. <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The Batch &amp; Furnace Manager shall be trained on how to
                     properly forecast raw materials consumption and inventory control, taking under
                     consideration production demand, seasonal requirements, transit times,
                     etc.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Batch House personnel shall comply with the Roles &amp;
               Responsibilities defined in Procedure BAT-02-021 Batch House Personnel
               Responsibilities and be trained for the position in every activity that needs to be
               performed.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">The plant shall have an asset management plan in place for the Batch House to ensure that the preventive maintenance is up to date and the equipment is working properly</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">The plant shall ensure:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Batch House operation shall be in compliance with
                           Procedure BAT-02-003 Batch House Environmental, Health and Safety.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All Batch House personnel shall wear the correct PPE as
                        defined by the local EHS department.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All equipment has the appropriate guarding according to
                           Procedure EHS-02-122 Machine Guarding Program, and the area is well lit. </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">If used, storage racks in the Batch House shall comply
                        with local regulations for capacity.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">HOUSEKEEPING:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Proper Housekeeping routines are in place according to
                           Procedure BAT-02-004 Batch House Housekeeping. All equipment labeling
                           shall be visible, and the scales and equipment shall be free of material
                           accumulation and leaks. The housekeeping routines shall include, but not
                           be limited to: <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Cleaning schedule.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Installation and use of industrial vacuum (high
                                 efficiency) or similar.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Dust collectors.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Processes shall be in place to properly dispose of any
                        material, such as mixed batch or raw materials (including minors) according
                        to local regulations.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">BATCH SYSTEM:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Raw materials silos and scales, and if applicable
                        pneumatic receiving system, are clearly labeled and the labels match the
                        material currently being stored/weighed that correspond to the Batch House
                        control system/panel.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The plant shall have a written procedure to define how to
                        safely perform manual weighing which is accessible in the Batch House
                        control room. Also, all operators in charge of the Batch House shall be
                        trained in manual weighing and given refresher training at least once per
                        year.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All scales are in good working order (seals in good
                        condition, free of accumulated material, fit for purpose) and maintenance is
                        up to date. </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Procedures shall be in place to ensure that the correct
                        functioning of the Batch House weighing system is verified following any
                        upgrades or changes to the control system.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All gates (raw material exits) shall be visually inspected
                        weekly to ensure proper functioning.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The plant shall have a written procedures to define how to
                        respond to Batch House technical issues which is accessible in the Batch
                        House control room. Also, all operators in charge of the Batch House shall
                        be trained in responding to technical issues and given refresher training at
                        least once per year.</li>
                        <li id="li_hc3_jzj_nzb" class="- topic/li ">The response plan to Batch House
                           technical issues should include, but it is not limited to: <ol id="ol_lc3_jzj_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Scale alarms: Over/Under weighment, weigh time
                                 exceeded, tare weight off… etc. </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">*<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Critical equipment</i> blockages, breakdowns,
                                 alarms.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">How to restart the system after a power
                                 failure.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">How to discharge a wrong batch.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">How to use and start a backup system to feed
                                 batch to the Furnace.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Silo Full alarms, rotation control alarms, belt
                                 alignment alarms, chute blockage alarms. <p class="- topic/p ">*Critical equipment: Mixer, elevators, conveyors.</p>
                                 <p class="- topic/p ">All of these procedures need to address safety
                                    for the operator and for the process to avoid
                                    accidents/injuries, weighing errors, cross contaminations,
                                    damage to critical equipment, down times and interruptions of
                                    the furnace(s). </p>
                                 <p class="- topic/p ">It is not responsible to
                                    acknowledge an alarm without prior investigation that it is safe
                                    to do so, and the problem has been diagnosed. Never remove
                                    device protection sensors!</p>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li id="li_pnp_jzj_nzb" class="- topic/li ">Belt cleaning devices (brushes,
                           scraper, etc.) shall be installed to avoid batch build-up on the conveyor
                           and set correctly to ensure effective belt cleaning with no belt damage.
                           Inspection and maintenance of these devices shall be performed
                           weekly.</li>
                        <li id="li_yx5_jzj_nzb" class="- topic/li ">When replacing a new conveyor, belt
                           scrapers shall also be renewed to prevent immediate damage.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The alarms for the Batch House weighing system as they relate to the raw
                        material weight tolerances should be set according to the weight tolerance
                        recommendations defined by Regional Glass Science.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The plant should react proactively if any changes in the ambient conditions
                        occur which could affect the proper functioning of Batch House weighing
                        system (humidity, moisture in raw materials, etc.).</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">It is recommended that a daily batch count reconciliation be performed to
                        ensure the proper batch weight.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">MIXER:
            <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The plant shall have proper procedures in place to ensure the mixer is cleaned and inspected on a weekly basis by trained personnel.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The mixer discharge timing shall be sufficient to remove as much material as possible from the mixer between batches.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All gates that control material flow into and out of the mixer are working as intended (no leaks).</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">For plants with at least 2 furnaces using different compositions, the purge time of the transfer equipment, after the mixer, shall be sufficient to avoid cross contamination between batches.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">BATCH DELIVERY:
            <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">For plants with Horizontal Batch Houses, the raw materials shall be properly synchronized prior to delivery to the mixer to maximize layering (sandwiching) and mixer utilization.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The homogeneity of the batch shall be visually inspected on a daily basis.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The plant shall have good control of mixed batch synchronization with cullet to maximize layering (sandwiching).</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The Batch and Furnace manager shall ensure that the day bin level variations are kept at a minimum, and that the levels are kept as high as possible to avoid segregation and mitigate against breakdowns.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">RAW MATERIALS:
            <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All raw materials silos shall be capable of use (no unusable silos due to reasons such as poor silo integrity or being filled with unusable, contaminated, or obsolete materials).</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Raw material silos shall be measured daily as described in Work
                           Instruction BAT-03-039 Raw Material Silo – Manual Measurement. </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Batch House silos shall be inspected internally and externally
                           once per year to ensure the integrity of the structure is in good
                           condition. This inspection shall be performed and documented according to
                           Work Instruction BAT-03-040 Raw Material Silo Inspection.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The Batch and Furnace Manager should practice the First In, First Out (FIFO) philosophy for the consumption of the minor raw materials.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The plant should keep the minor raw materials dry.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
