<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1CAEE64-BB01-11F0-6841-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Process Requirements</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-01T15:05:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-01T15:05:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="plant-management,safety-and-compliance-officers,operations-team,maintenance-personnel,machine-operators"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-ehs-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>inspection-checklist-tool</indexterm>
            <indexterm>permit-to-work-system</indexterm>
            <indexterm>training-management-system</indexterm>
            <indexterm>incident-reporting-tool</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>work-permit-process</indexterm>
            <indexterm>pre-shift-inspection</indexterm>
            <indexterm>risk-assessment-method</indexterm>
            <indexterm>equipment-maintenance-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>incident-investigation</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>preventive-maintenance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hot-work-and-furnace-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lift-and-access-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>mro-workflows</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-shift-handover</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="process requirements"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Specifies mandatory process controls including permits inspections risk assessments and maintenance procedures to manage operational safety"/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="permit-to-work;inspection-checklist;risk-assessment-form;lockout-tagout;maintenance-workorder"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:ehs/usecase:process-controls-and-requirements/industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="permits,inspections,risk assessment,maintenance,mro"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="define process level requirements and controls for safe operations and maintenance"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">A formal and documented risk assessment must be completed prior to undertaking any work from heights. Working at heights should be avoided and only conducted if it is the only practicable option.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Guard rails and toe boards shall be installed as per the local legislative requirements on all walkways and platforms.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Where the potential exists for an employee to fall at an unprotected height according to regional legislative requirements, personal fall arrest devices must be used.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">A formal training program for all fall protection and fall arrest devices are required.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Employees using personal lifting devices (e.g. a manlift, scissor lift, mobile elevated platform) shall be suitably trained and shall tie off at all times in such devices.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">A maintenance and inspection program is implemented at the site for ladders,
               scaffolding, mobile elevated work platform, and all fall protection and fall arrest
               equipment.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Working from heights permit documentation must be completed and signed off by a trained person prior to any work at heights activity being undertaken.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">All floor openings (pits, sumps, wells, etc.) must be protected with a standard railing unless covered with permanently-installed cover plates or gratings.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Any person walking on a roof containing fragile roofing materials must either be supported by a walkway or wear suitable fall arrest equipment.</li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
