<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1D05308-BB01-11F0-1128-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Working On or Around Rolling Stock</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T12:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T12:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="machine operators,maintenance personnel,operations supervisors,safety compliance officers,industrial engineers"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>rolling-stock</indexterm>
            <indexterm>track-infrastructure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>clearance-tools</indexterm>
            <indexterm>personal-protective-equipment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>isolation-devices</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>working-on-rolling-stock</indexterm>
            <indexterm>work-area-isolation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>pre-task-briefing</indexterm>
            <indexterm>permit-to-work</indexterm>
            <indexterm>handover-procedure</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>fleet-maintenance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-rail-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operator-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-and-mro</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operational-safety</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Working on or around rolling stock procedures"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Operational controls and mandatory steps for safe work on and adjacent to rolling stock to prevent strike and crush injuries."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="rolling stock;track;work crew;permit;isolation point"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:ehs;usecase:workplace-procedures;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="rolling-stock,work-procedure,permit-to-work,isolation"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="ensure safe execution of maintenance and operational tasks near rolling stock"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Remain alert and aware of surroundings. Locomotives, railcars, and other rolling stock equipment may move without warning on any track in either direction. </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Never sit, walk, stand, or place any objects on the rails, ties, switch gear, guardrails, or other parts of the track structure. Be aware that tracks can move.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">When two parties are operating on the same track at the same time, a written operating procedure shall be developed in conjunction with the local servicing railroad and utilized at the location by the operators.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Any time work is being performed on rolling stock while it is still on the tracks, a visible flag and/or “Men Working” sign shall be clearly displayed. </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">A communication system shall be established to ensure that all employees know where others are working in and around rolling stock. This system may be radio contact, air horns, hand signals, or other forms of communication.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">When loading, unloading, and when dock boards or bridge plates are in place, hand brakes shall be set. Wheel stops and other recognized positive protection shall be used to prevent the rolling stock from moving.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Dock boards or bridge plates must be sufficient to carry the imposed load.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Dock boards or bridge plates must be secured in position with anchoring or equipped with devices which will prevent their slippage.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Powered dock boards shall be designed to appropriate commercial standards.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Handholds shall be provided on portable dock boards to assist with moving.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Mobile equipment shall not be used to open or close rail car doors.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Mobile equipment shall not be driven up to anyone standing within the rail car.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Working on or accessing the top side of a rail car or other rolling stock will often constitute Working at Heights and will require equipment for fall protection. Please refer to EHS-02-103 Working at Heights Procedure.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Workers loading/unloading materials shall be instructed on safe procedures appropriate to the material they handle.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">The rolling stock operator shall be aware of the maximum number of empty and loaded railcars that can be attached based on the size of the locomotive.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">During any movement and when approaching crossings, the locomotive or towing equipment shall sound its horn, or another form of alert if local legislation restricts noise.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">The locomotive or other power equipment shall be operated at a safe speed at all times.</li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
