<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1E16952-BB01-11F0-1731-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T15:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T15:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="maintenance personnel, machine operators, safety officers, reliability engineers, industrial engineers"/>
         <keywords>
            <indexterm>lockout-tagout-equipment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>confined-space-monitor</indexterm>
            <indexterm>breathing-apparatus</indexterm>
            <indexterm>dust-control-systems</indexterm>
            <indexterm>inspection-tools</indexterm>
            <indexterm>permit-to-work</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lockout-tagout-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>pre-task-risk-assessment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>equipment-isolation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>routine-inspection</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-activity</indexterm>
            <indexterm>shutdown-procedures</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-isolation-zones</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hot-work-permit-areas</indexterm>
            <indexterm>contractor-worksites</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Procedure - EHS Operational Procedures"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Operational procedures for task risk assessment, permit to work and safe maintenance practices in glass manufacturing plants."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="permits;isolation-points;inspection-checklists;task-safety-analyses;maintenance-logs"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:environmental-health-safety;usecase:operational-procedures;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="procedure,permit-to-work,lockout-tagout,task-risk-assessment"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="provide step by step safe work procedures"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Responsibility<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The facility manager shall be responsible for the implementation of the Respirable Crystalline Silica Management Program. Duties supporting this objective shall be assigned to the Plant EHS Manager, Plant Engineer, Batch and Furnace Supervisor, or others as designated.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Risk Assessment<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Each facility shall conduct a Respirable Crystalline Silica (RCS) risk assessment. The risk assessment shall be based on the potential RCS airborne concentrations for the jobs and tasks of Similar Exposure Groups (SEGs).</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Exposure Assessment<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Introduction<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Silica dust monitoring shall be conducted to determine employee exposure to RCS. The sampling shall be conducted by a competent person.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Industrial Hygiene Exposure Assessment<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">An Exposure Assessment Strategy shall be developed to include:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Exposure assessment objectives and goals.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Information needed to characterize the workplace, workforce, and
                              environmental agents.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Similar exposure groups (SEG’s) which includes groups of workers
                              having the same general exposure profile for the agents being
                              evaluated because of similarity and frequency of tasks they
                              perform.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Judgements on acceptability of exposure assessments: <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Unacceptable Exposures – a control plan of action shall be
                                    developed </li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Uncertain Exposures – additional information shall be
                                    collected</li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Acceptable Exposures – exposures judged acceptable shall have
                                    no additional actions, until it is time for reassessment. </li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Health Control Plan – for unacceptable assessments, the effectiveness
                              of existing controls shall be evaluated and a determination shall be
                              made whether new or modified controls are needed.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Reassessment – frequency for additional monitoring shall be
                              determined.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Documentation – exposure assessment shall be communicated in a timely
                              and effective fashion to all potentially affected workers. The entire
                              exposure assessment process shall be documented.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Objectives for Exposure Assessment shall be developed:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Personal Sampling or Area Sampling <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Position/Work Task to be monitored shall be identified. </li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Area to be monitored as elevated exposure or low exposure
                                    expected shall be identified.</li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Relevant information shall be gathered including: employee
                                    respiratory protection records; training, fit testing, and
                                    engineering control records such as; ventilation status,
                                    preventative maintenance records, etc.</li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Form EHS-02-125-F002 Occupational Sampling Survey, or
                                       equivalent, shall be completed during and after assessment
                                       for each sample collected.</li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Sampling Data Assessment <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Once sampling is complete, Form EHS-02-125-F001 Exposure
                                       Assessment Results, or equivalent, shall be used to record
                                       the assessment results for RCS. </li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Based on the information, a judgment shall be made on each
                                    sample collected as to whether it is unacceptable, uncertain, or
                                    acceptable.</li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Determine whether additional controls, additional information,
                                    or additional actions are required.</li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Affected employees shall be notified using Form EHS-02-125-F003
                                 Industrial Hygiene Monitoring Summary, or equivalent. Notification
                                 of employee sampling results shall be given in a timely and
                                 effective fashion.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Sampling Method<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A validated, well-established, and locally recognized sampling method shall be used to collect air/dust samples. For example:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) method 7500.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) ID-142 method.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 16258 method.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Calibration<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Calibration of sampling equipment shall be verified/conducted prior to each day of sampling and verified at the end of each sampling shift.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Collection Apparatus<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The collection apparatus shall not permit for the escape of respirable dusts once collected. For example:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Tared (pre-weighed) PVC filters mounted in a cyclone sampling apparatus where dust can be collected and deposited on the filter, or</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">A rotating polyurethane foam collection apparatus.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Sample Volume<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A sample volume of at least 500 liters shall be required to assure reliable results, especially at lower concentration levels. Full shift samples are to be collected when possible. The greater the amount of shift time sampled, the greater the accuracy of the results.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Personal Samples<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Personal samples shall be collected whenever possible, since they represent the most accurate method of determining the employee's exposure levels.  The personal samples shall be collected for SEGs with potential exposure.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Breathing Zone Samples<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Samples shall be collected in the breathing zone of the employee by securing the sampling head to the collar of the worker.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Representative Samples<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">When several employees are performing the same job, multiple representatives of the job category population who are expected to have the highest exposure to RCS shall be sampled, unless otherwise specified by local regulation. </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Analysis of Samples<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Industrial hygiene air sample analysis shall be conducted by an accredited laboratory.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Allowable Limits<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Once the analytical results are received from the laboratory, the results shall be compared to the local legislative limits. </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Data Storage<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The results shall be maintained as a permanent record, as required by the regulations and for use in trend analysis.  </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Employee Information<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The results of sampling shall be reviewed with the affected employees by the plant EHS Manager or designated plant person in a timely and effective fashion.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Once sampling is complete, Form EHS-02-125-F001 Exposure Assessment
                           Results, or equivalent, shall be used to record the assessment results
                           for RCS. </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Medical Surveillance<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Coverage<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Each plant shall institute a Silica Medical Surveillance Program (SMSP) for all employees who could be exposed over the local/regional legislative limit. This may include employees who are assigned to the Batch &amp; Furnace Department. </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All examinations and procedures shall be performed by or under the supervision of a competent physician, at a reasonable time and place and at no cost to the employee.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The SMSP examination can be combined with a Respiratory Protection
                           examination using Procedure EHS-02-114 Respiratory Protection.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">SMSP - Program Administration<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The plant or plant EHS manager shall designate at least one employee as program administrator at their site. All components of the Space SMSP shall be implemented by the administrator. Depending on local legislation, this may include:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Supervision and oversight</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Data collection</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Computerized recordkeeping and reporting, including employee notification and respiratory clearance letter which states that the employee is approved to wear a respirator.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">SMSP – Elements<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Personal/Occupational/Medical History<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">A personal/occupational/medical history shall be developed for each employee assigned to the SMSP. The physician or other licensed health care provider shall have a thorough understanding of silica-related diseases.  </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The physician or other licensed health care provider shall review past, present, and expected silica exposures and obtain the description of former, current and anticipated duties and those tasks relationship to RCS.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Review the type of personal protective equipment (PPE) to be used.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Physical Exam<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">An assessment of the cardiac and lung system. Also, examine the body extremities (to look for cyanosis, clubbing, or edema).</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Tuberculosis (TB) test (baseline).  </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Spirometry tests shall be performed by a qualified technician initially and then at least every three years. These shall include measurements of the employee's Forced Vital Capacity (FVC) and Forced Expiratory Volume at one second (FEV-1).</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">A chest x-ray shall be performed and submitted to a physician or licensed healthcare professional certified in reading radiography for evaluation and grading of changes consistent with developing silicosis.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">A chest x-ray shall be obtained for relevant SEGs within six (6) months from employment or change of job and at a frequency of every three years, or more often as determined by a physician or other licensed health care provider. </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Other Testing – <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Additional tests as deemed necessary by the physician or other licensed health care provider.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Responsibility for Reporting<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The physician or other licensed health care provider shall review the results of the medical surveillance with the employee</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The physician or other licensed health care provider shall provide Space with a ‘fit-for-work’ certificate for the employee within thirty (30) days. </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li "> Record Retention<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Medical records shall be retained for a period of thirty (30) years past the last date of work of the employee in the SMSP. These records shall be made reasonably available to the employee upon their request. The records shall be made available to the appropriate regulatory agency officials upon request.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Exposure Control Plan<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Form EHS-02-125-F004 Exposure Control Plan, or equivalent, shall be used to
                     document an exposure control strategy for respirable crystalline silica.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The written plan shall contain the following elements:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A description of the tasks in the workplace that involve exposure to respirable crystalline silica.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A Job Hazard Analysis (JHA) shall be conducted on each identified task
                           using Form EHS-02-112-F001 Job Hazard Analysis and PPE Assessment.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A description of the engineering control, work practices, and respiratory protection used to limit employee exposure to respirable crystalline silica for each task.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A description of the housekeeping measures used to limit employee exposure to respirable crystalline silica.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The effectiveness of the written exposure plan shall be reviewed and evaluated at least annually and updated as necessary.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Control Methods<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Engineering and work practice controls shall be implemented to reduce and maintain employee exposure to RCS, to the extent that such controls are feasible. <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Where possible, RCS shall be eliminated or substituted with a safer alternative. </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Regulated Areas<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Regulated areas shall be established wherever exposure to airborne concentrations of RCS is, or can reasonably be expected to be, in excess of the local legislative exposure limit.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Regulated areas shall be separated from the rest of the workplace in a manner that minimizes the number of employees exposed to RCS within the regulated area.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Signs shall be posted at all entrances to regulated areas.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Access shall be limited to regulated areas to:
                           <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Persons authorized by Space and required by work duties to be present in the regulated area.
                              </li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Any person entering such an area as a designated representative of employees for the purpose of exercising the right to observe monitoring procedures.</li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Any person authorized by local legislation or regulations issued under it to be in a regulated area.</li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Dust Control Procedures<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The accumulation of dust shall be reduced by following good housekeeping practices and reporting leaks / spills to a supervisor.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">When conducting utility or housekeeping activities where silica may be present, the following procedures shall be employed <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">in the following order</i>:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">High-Efficiency Particulate Air Filter (HEPA) Vacuuming shall be the preferred method and shall be used where practical.
                           <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">When Central Vacuum Equipment is used, Form EHS-02-125-F005
                                       Central Vacuum Equipment Evaluation, or equivalent shall be
                                       completed in order to evaluate the performance status of the
                                       equipment in the Batch House. </li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">If HEPA vacuuming is not practical, a wet method shall be used. 
                           <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Moist floor sweep absorbent shall be used or moistening/wetting of dust prior to sweeping shall be practiced. DRY SWEEPING IS PROHIBITED. </li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">If shoveling of material is necessary, respiratory protection and Tyvek (or regional equivalent) coverall shall be required to keep dust off of clothing.  To reduce potential dusting when shoveling, material shall be placed in a container, instead of forceful throwing.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Compressed air shall not be used unless none of the above methods are practical.  This may include cleaning of various systems, such as scale components difficult to reach by other methods.  Use of compressed air shall be extremely limited and shall require personal protective equipment to include respiratory protection and Tyvek (or regional equivalent) coveralls.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Personal Protective Equipment<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Respiratory Protection<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Respirators shall be worn in the Batch &amp; Furnace Department for protection against RCS as follows:
                           <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">During cleaning operations	
                              </li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">When performing work which creates dust. This includes repairs, maintenance and utility work.</li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Protective Clothing <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Tyvek (or regional equivalent) coveralls may be worn for protection against RCS.
                              <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Coveralls shall be removed at end of shift or end of task.  Coveralls shall not be worn into other areas of the plant.</li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Personal Hygiene / Practices<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Smoking, eating, drinking, using cosmetics or smokeless tobacco products in the work areas shall be prohibited. </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Hands and face shall be washed before eating, drinking, or smoking.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Compressed air shall not be used to clean clothing.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Employees shall stand away from dusty processes, when possible, including raw material unloading. </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
