<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="d13aAjan745"
         xml:lang="en"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Managing RFI Responses</title>
   <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc ">
      <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Request for Information (RFI)</b> is a questionnaire prepared by the buyer to ask the questions to the suppliers.</shortdesc>
   <prolog class="- topic/prolog ">
      <author class="- topic/author ">Metapercept</author>
      <critdates class="- topic/critdates ">
         <created date="2025-11-21+05:30" class="- topic/created "/>
         <revised modified="2025-05-05" class="- topic/revised "/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata class="- topic/metadata ">
         <audience type="role"
                   platform="web"
                   product="metR-Power-Source_To_Pay_User_Guide_Final"
                   class="- topic/audience "/>
         <keywords class="- topic/keywords ">
            <keyword class="- topic/keyword "/>
            <indexterm class="- topic/indexterm "/>
            <indexterm class="- topic/indexterm "/>
         </keywords>
         <othermeta name="title" content="" class="- topic/othermeta "/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="" class="- topic/othermeta "/>
      </metadata>
      <resourceid appid=""
                  appname=""
                  id=""
                  ux-source-priority="topic-and-map"
                  class="- topic/resourceid "/>
   </prolog>
   <conbody>
      <p class="- topic/p ">A request for information (RFI) is a proposal requested from a potential seller or a service provider to determine what products and services are potentially available in the marketplace to meet a buyer's needs and to know the capability of a seller in terms of offerings and strengths of the seller. RFIs are commonly used on major procurements, where a requirement could potentially be met through several alternate means. An RFI, however, is not an invitation to bid, is not binding on either the buyer or sellers, and may or may not lead to an RFQ. The RFI can be closed and reopened as well. The Supplier enters the details and sends it back to the Buyer. The Buyer then scores the Suppliers on the basis of RFI responses received. </p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">The principal benefit of using an RFI is that you can provide potential information as required by the buyer which may lead to winning the deal.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">You can create, edit, and download the RFI repsonses from the RFI tab on supplier portal. You receive a notification via an email when the buyer starts the RFI phase. You can then create appropriate responses and submit it to the buyer. You can edit your response even if you have submitted your response to the buyer. You must submit your final RFI Response before the RFI deadline ends. Your RFI responses will be scored and shortlisted, if eligible.  </p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">If you are Non-Portal Supplier, refer to <xref href="../managing_rfi_responses_fo_69206021/69206021.dita"
               format="dita"
               class="- topic/xref ">Managing RFI Responses for Non-Portal Suppliers</xref>.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">In our example, Sam seeks for information from Rex and Kid. So, he sends them an RFI. Rex and Kid respond to RFI. On the basis of RFI, Sam shortlists the eligible suppliers and asks for a quotation from them.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
