<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
         id="c1E960CF-BB01-11F0-5257-09173F13E4C5"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Application</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T18:09:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T18:09:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="executive leadership,plant management,safety professionals,operations teams,maintenance personnel,plant workforce"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product Layer -->
            <indexterm>roof-access-system</indexterm>
            <indexterm>fall-protection-equipment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>personal-protective-equipment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>permit-to-work-module</indexterm>
            <!-- Process Layer -->
            <indexterm>scope-definition</indexterm>
            <indexterm>application-criteria</indexterm>
            <indexterm>activity-classification</indexterm>
            <indexterm>risk-screening-process</indexterm>
            <!-- Context Layer -->
            <indexterm>glass-manufacturing-roof-work</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-maintenance-activities</indexterm>
            <indexterm>contractor-roof-access</indexterm>
            <indexterm>ehs-compliance-mandates</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain EHS;usecase scope-application;industry glass manufacturing heavy machinery industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="establish-scope-and-applicability"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <ol class="- topic/ol ">
         <li class="- topic/li ">First, perform a risk assessment and analyze all low-risk alternatives to accomplish the work, such as:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">Carry out the work on the ground whenever possible.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Use a cherry picker (if feasible) to avoid actually being on the roof.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Erect scaffolding wherever appropriate.</li>
            </ol>
         </li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">If working on a roof is necessary:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">Establish entrance and exit points.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Identify the type of roof (pitched, flat, or fragile).</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Assess the structural integrity of the roof, including cladding and beams.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Determine the weight distribution on the roof.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Assess the presence of existing fall prevention and protection measures.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Determine any need for fall prevention and any additional protection.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Consider asbestos exposure.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Thoroughly analyze other factors that may endanger the safety of employees.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Provide staff training.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Develop and exercise an emergency plan.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Follow all site-specific ladder safety procedures when accessing the roof from a portable or fixed ladder.</li>
            </ol>
         </li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">Following the risk assessment, develop a work at height permit and identify the fall prevention measures installed or those required temporarily.  If fall prevention is not feasible, determine an appropriate fall protection system. </li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">Any fall protection system must follow Space’s Working at Heights program. </li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">Contractors must complete a Site Safety Plan following the guidance and approval process listed in the Contractor Safety Fundamental before beginning any roof projects.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">If required, consider other work permits such as hot-work permits.  LOTO (lock out/tag out) procedures may be required for some projects.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">Obtain validation from Space of the required protection to be implemented, which is dependent on the roof type.</li>
      </ol>
   </conbody>
</concept>
