<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="BIC"
         xml:lang="en-us"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Ball in Court</title>
   <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc "/>
   <prolog>
      <author>Yashshree</author>
      <critdates class="- topic/critdates ">
         <created date="2025-11-21+05:30" class="- topic/created "/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-21" class="- topic/revised "/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="administrator, engineering, management, external contractors, analyst"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>ball-in-court-feature</indexterm>
            <indexterm>notifications-module</indexterm>
            <indexterm>common-application-features</indexterm>
            <indexterm>communication-tools</indexterm>
            <indexterm>task-routing</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>initiating-bic-notification</indexterm>
            <indexterm>responding-to-bic</indexterm>
            <indexterm>forwarding-task</indexterm>
            <indexterm>bic-workflow</indexterm>
            <indexterm>assigning-action</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>mind-administration</indexterm>
            <indexterm>capital-program-management</indexterm>
            <indexterm>workflow-communication</indexterm>
            <indexterm>user-inbox</indexterm>
            <indexterm>approval-process</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>Mind-Administration-Guide</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Ball in Court"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Describes the Ball in Court (BIC) feature used to forward work items and request responses from other users or teams."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="ball-in-court;notification;task;user;workflow"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:capital-program-management;usecase:notification-management;industry:glass-manufacturing"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="bic,notification,forward,workflow,inbox"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="notification-management"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <conbody>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Using the Ball in Court feature, you can forward form information to a user of the project to obtain more information or approvals. The Ball in Court feature is primarily used when a stakeholder at a particular workflow stage of a form needs to send form information to a user who is not a stakeholder at the workflow stage of the form. The user receiving the forwarded form information can then respond to the initiator with the required information.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">On initiating the ball in court utility in a form, a notificationemail is sent to the recipient, a notification is saved inthe<uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">INBOX</uicontrol>page of the recipient, and atask created in the application<uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">MY TASKS</uicontrol>page of the recipient. </p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">The recipient can then respond to the initiator from the form from which the ball in court utility was initiated. On responding to the ball in court notification in a form, a notificationemail is sent to the initiator anda notification is saved in the<uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">INBOX</uicontrol>page of the initiator.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">The notification emailsent from the initiator and the response notification email sent from recipient are configurable in the workflow associated with the form. The notification email templates can be configured to contain custom information, and also form information.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">The high-level task sequence for the ball in court utility is as follows:</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Configure notification templates in the <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Mail Body Template</uicontrol> catalog of the Library.<ph product="Exclude_PG_Content" class="- topic/ph ">For information on configuring the Mail Body Template, refer to <xref href="../../Library_Management/Standard_Library_Catalogs/Notifications/MailBodyTemps.dita"
                        class="- topic/xref ">Creating Mail Body Templates</xref>.</ph>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Select the notification template to be sent to the recipient and the notification template to be sent to the initiator of the ball in court notification in the workflow of the form at the required workflow stage. <ph product="Exclude_PG_Content" class="- topic/ph ">For information on configuring email templates, refer to <xref href="../../Administration/Configuration_Toolkit/Workflow_Management/CreateWFSimple.dita"
                        class="- topic/xref ">Configuring Ball in Court Notifications</xref>.</ph>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Create the required form, and save the form.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Use the Ball in Court notification in the form. The initiator template configured in the workflow is sent to the recipient.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Use the Respond notification in the form that was used to initiate the Ball in Court notification. The recipient template configured in the workflow is sent to the initiator.</li>
         </ol>
      </p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">To illustrate the working of the Ball in Court feature, the <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Expenses Form</b> is used as an example. The following topics describe the process to initiate a Ball in Court notification and respond to the notification:</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">
         <ul class="- topic/ul ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <xref href="InitiateBICNotif.dita" class="- topic/xref ">Initiating a Ball in Court notification</xref>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <xref href="ResBICNotif.dita" class="- topic/xref ">Responding to a Ball in Court notification</xref>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
