<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1D2A354-BB01-11F0-4070-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Waste Management Requirements</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T13:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T13:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="environmental health and safety officers,plant management,operations team,maintenance staff"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-ehs-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>waste-management-module</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hazardous-waste-tracker</indexterm>
            <indexterm>disposal-log</indexterm>
            <indexterm>compliance-reporter</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>waste-segregation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hazardous-waste-handling</indexterm>
            <indexterm>waste-disposal-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>waste-recordkeeping</indexterm>
            <indexterm>emergency-spill-response</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>glass-production-waste</indexterm>
            <indexterm>chemical-contaminants</indexterm>
            <indexterm>environmental-compliance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-waste-streams</indexterm>
            <indexterm>mro-waste</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Waste Management Requirements"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Detailed requirements for segregation, handling, storage and disposal of waste generated in glass manufacturing operations."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="waste-bin;hazardous-container;spill-kit;waste-contract;disposal-facility"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:heavy-machinery-and-industrial-equipment;usecase:waste-management;industry:glass-manufacturing-heavy-machinery-and-industrial-equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="waste,segregation,disposal,environmental"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="ensure-compliant-waste-handling"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Waste Determination<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Space facilities must complete form EHS-02-006-F001 <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Waste Determination</i>, or equivalent, for all wastes that are generated at the site.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Space facilities must utilize analytical methods or “generator” knowledge of the process to characterize individual wastes. </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">When an analytical characterization is necessary to assign the waste code/description, the laboratory shall be qualified and certified/accredited to perform the required waste analyses. All analytical characterizations shall be maintained on file at the facility. They shall properly identify the waste code (or the description of each waste) according to local regulations and environmental permits (where applicable) prior to shipment off-site. </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The waste code/description shall be clearly identified on or near the waste containers while they are being stored on-site at the facility.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Assess all wastes annually</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Waste Minimization<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Initially, and then annually thereafter, Space facilities shall assess their waste
                  generating processes as they relate to the following waste management hierarchy:
                     <ol id="ol_wkt_cd5_4zb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Prevention</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Minimization</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Re-use</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Recycling</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Energy Recovery</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Disposal</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Each site shall estimate the portions (i.e. percentages) of their existing waste generation practices that would be considered minimization, re-use, recycle, energy recovery, or disposal.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The plant shall set site-specific waste management targets, as per the above hierarchy, and then review them annually.  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The plant shall maintain a written waste minimization plan that identifies the
                  waste management targets and the methods used to reduce, eliminate, or prevent
                  waste at its source. Each process that generates waste at the facility should be
                  reviewed and assessed for appropriate waste hierarchy options (displayed above as
                  7.2 A.<xref href="#r1D2A354-BB01-11F0-4070-09173F13E4C5/ol_wkt_cd5_4zb" class="- topic/xref ">1</xref> through A.<xref href="#r1D2A354-BB01-11F0-4070-09173F13E4C5/ol_wkt_cd5_4zb" class="- topic/xref ">6</xref>). The plan should be reviewed and
                  updated annually to ensure the proper execution of the identified methods and to
                  assess new methods.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Waste Collection, Handling, and Storage<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Space facilities shall develop specific job hazard analyses (JHAs) and standard operating procedures (SOP)s which follow Space policies to manage waste safely and ensure compliance with local regulations.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Space employees, visitors, and contractors shall follow the JHAs and SOPs developed.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Manual handling of waste shall be avoided (where possible). Any time employees handle waste, they shall wear all mandatory personal protective equipment (PPE) at all times. While handling waste, all necessary precautions shall be taken to avoid spills/pollution. If there is a fire, explosion, or any unplanned release of hazardous waste or hazardous waste constituents to the air, soil, or surface water at the facility, follow the facility’s Hazardous Waste Contingency plan portion of the facility Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure Plan and/or the facility Emergency Plan.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Space employees, visitors, and contractors shall follow PPE requirements established by the site.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">As far as is practical, different wastes shall be collected separately according to their waste classification and per any applicable regulation. Department Supervisors (or delegated persons) shall confirm that waste separation is applied correctly within their departments.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">In the plant, a main waste accumulation area for hazardous waste, and a separate area for non-hazardous waste, are considered to be a best practice. Each waste accumulation area shall be segregated and contained to avoid environmental impact. The mixing of non-hazardous and hazardous wastes is strictly forbidden.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All waste accumulation areas and containers shall have appropriate signage and labeling with a waste classification (waste code or description of waste) in the local language. Signage showing the hazardous properties of the waste shall be on display in the waste accumulation area. Containers shall be dedicated for waste accumulation use only. When selecting the container, the characteristics of the waste shall be considered in order to avoid leaks, spills, contamination, chemical reactions, or health and safety issues. Refer to the applicable hazardous material transportation related regulatory requirements (specified by local regulations) for assistance in the container selection.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">A weekly inspection of the main waste accumulation areas using form EHS-02-06-F002 <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Weekly Waste Inspection</i>, or an equivalent, shall be performed by the department supervisor or a person named by the facility manager, at a minimum.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">After these inspections have been completed and any corrective actions have been identified, the form(s) shall be signed by the person conducting the inspection and reviewed/signed by the facility EHS manager and/or the facility manager. </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The completed forms should be filed locally. Completion of corrective actions should be documented and filed with the initial completed inspection form(s) no later than the next scheduled inspection of the area.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All waste accumulation/storage areas shall be identified on a plant site map. </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">A waste register shall be maintained by the site to track the generation quantity of the individual wastes on a monthly basis (or as required by local regulations). The date and quantity of waste generation and waste shipments should be included in this waste register. This waste register shall be retained on file along with the waste inventory information. The waste register shall be made available to a regulator as required.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Each site shall ensure that all regulatory reporting requirements are followed as stipulated by the applicable environmental regulations.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Shipment of Waste<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Waste containers shall be shipped off-site to the required treatment, storage, and disposal facility (TSDF) once any of the following situations occur: <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The waste container storage area is full.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The maximum permitted quantity of waste has been reached.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The waste has been stored onsite for the maximum permitted time. </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Consult the waste determination form to understand the allowable waste quantities and on-site accumulation/storage times for your facility to improve the overall waste management.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All necessary measures shall be taken to ensure that wastes are packaged and labelled according to local requirements during collection, transport, and accumulation.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Validation of Waste Carriers<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Before any new company is allowed to take waste from an Space site, a check shall be made to ensure the following:
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The transport company has a valid waste carrier permit.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The permit includes the type of waste classification that it will be shipping from Space.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">All controls required by the authorities are in place</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The specific vehicle </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Validation of TSDF<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Before any new company is allowed to receive the waste from Space’s site, a check shall be made to ensure the following:
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The TSDF is permitted to receive the waste.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The permit includes the type of waste classification that it will be receiving from Space.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">All controls required by authorities are in place.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Space shall obtain waste shipping documentation (paper or electronic, depending on local practices) for all waste that leaves the site. The facility shall confirm that the documentation provided by the waste contractor is complete and then they shall subsequently file the record for at least three years.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Any Space employee who prepares hazardous materials (including hazardous wastes) for shipment; loads or unloads hazardous materials for shipments; signs shipping papers for hazardous materials; or manages the waste register; must first complete the required hazardous materials transportation training certification course, as stipulated by the local regulating agency governing hazardous materials transportation.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Proof of training certification is required and shall be maintained at the facility.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">When waste (hazardous and non-hazardous) is transported outside of the facility, the waste determination form shall be updated accordingly.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Transboundary Waste Shipment<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The export/import of hazardous waste for disposal to and from other countries is strictly prohibited.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">In the case of exporting non-hazardous waste to other countries, the following steps shall be adhered to:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Refer to national legislation to ensure that the type of shipment proposed is not banned.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Notify the authorities in the countries of dispatch, transit and, destination in advance of the proposed shipment.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Provide the authorities with the general information requirements for all wastes listed, as required by local and/or regional legislation.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Internal Audit<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The local EHS Manager shall perform a review of the waste management program at least once every year. The results shall be shared with the facility manager to communicate corrective and preventative actions. Corrective and preventative actions shall be identified in case of non-compliance with local or regional legislation.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Training Requirements<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All persons leading or participating in waste management shall complete classroom or on-the-job training, on an annual basis to become familiar with proper waste management and emergency procedures for the wastes handled at the facility. <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">This training shall cover the minimum requirements of this procedure and
                        any additional requirements to meet local legislation and applicable
                        regulation.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The training must be documented with each employee’s name, job title, job responsibilities, and a copy of the provided training.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Record Retention<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All documents relating to waste management and all associated procedures shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years, or per applicable regulations, in a location that is accessible by all relevant personnel.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
