<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1D27517-BB01-11F0-4885-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Roles &amp; Responsibilities</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T13:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T13:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="executive leadership,plant management,safety and compliance officers,operations team,maintenance staff"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-ehs-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>roles-module</indexterm>
            <indexterm>responsibility-matrix</indexterm>
            <indexterm>raci-tool</indexterm>
            <indexterm>training-portal</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>role-definition</indexterm>
            <indexterm>responsibility-assignment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>competency-requirements</indexterm>
            <indexterm>training-and-certification</indexterm>
            <indexterm>performance-measures</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>leadership-accountability</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operator-responsibilities</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-accountability</indexterm>
            <indexterm>ehs-management-structure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-operational-roles</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Roles and Responsibilities"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Defines roles, responsibilities and competency requirements for EHS accountabilities across the plant."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="role;raci;competency;training-record;accountable-person"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:heavy-machinery-and-industrial-equipment;usecase:role-definition;industry:glass-manufacturing-heavy-machinery-and-industrial-equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="roles,responsibilities,competency"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="assign-accountability-and-competency-requirements"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Global EHS Center of Excellence Team<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Develops, maintains, and communicates all Group EHS fundamentals and supporting tools and guidance.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Conducts Global EHS audits on the waste management process, its implementation, and the results at plants across Space.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Regional EHS<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Ensures that all Space sites in their region have implemented a waste management process. The process must be consistent with this Global EHS fundamental, regional guidance, and with any local applicable EHS legal and regulatory requirements.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Creates, if appropriate, guidance and/or more detailed procedures for sites
                     within their region. The regional team maintains a copy of these documents in
                     Appendix <xref href="EHS-02-006_appendices.dita#c1D1BCAA-BB01-11F0-1364-09173F13E4C5/li_umx_515_4zb"
                           class="- topic/xref ">A</xref> of this
                     fundamental. </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Provides, within their region, coaching and mentoring of plant and EHS staff and ongoing monitoring of waste management expectations (implementation, process, and results) at all Space operating sites in their region.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Holds sites within their region accountable for an effective waste management program.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Site EHS Manager or EHS Leader<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Works with the local EHS leadership team and the assigned project champion to facilitate the development of the local, documented waste management program, as well as the implementation of the program.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Routinely monitors the effectiveness of the local waste management program and facilitates the continuous improvement of the program when needed.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Operating Sites<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">EHS leadership understands the requirements of this EHS fundamental and assigns a project champion to develop and implement a local waste management program.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The site’s project champion develops a site-specific waste management procedure
                     and places the developed document into Appendix <xref href="EHS-02-006_appendices.dita#c1D1BCAA-BB01-11F0-1364-09173F13E4C5/li_qfr_gb5_4zb"
                           class="- topic/xref ">B</xref>. This site-specific
                     document will incorporate any “more stringent” regional requirements, any “more
                     stringent” local requirements, and all requirements from the EHS fundamental.
                     Any exceptions to this must be approved by the regional EHS Director with
                     concurrence from the Global Director of Environmental Affairs, and documented
                     in the regional section. The plant maintains a copy of this complete
                     site-specific waste management program and all appendices on the site’s
                     SharePoint and/or other plant system.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The site’s project champion implements the site-specific waste management program.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The facility manager is responsible for the communication, implementation, and execution of this procedure at their location.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The facility manager is responsible for nominating the individual who is in charge of waste management and their back up. The names of the nominated individuals shall be communicated to all relevant personnel. The facility manager shall ensure that the waste management process involves the facility EHS manager, the front-line leaders, and all relevant employees.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Facility EHS staff are responsible for ensuring that all site-specific procedures relating to waste management comply with local legislation, environmental permits, ISO14001 standards (where applicable), and the minimum requirements identified in this procedure.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
