<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1AB3168-BB01-11F0-1028-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-11-06+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-06"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="operator,maintenance,safety-engineer"/>
         <keywords>
            <indexterm>metr-bat-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>preheater-maintenance-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>safety-isolation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lockout-tagout</indexterm>
            <indexterm>inspection-checklist</indexterm>
            <indexterm>burner-servicing-steps</indexterm>
            <indexterm>sensor-calibration</indexterm>
            <indexterm>conveyor-adjustment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>post-maintenance-verification</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-recording</indexterm>
            <indexterm>glass-manufacturing</indexterm>
            <indexterm>preventive-maintenance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>fault-isolation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>service-approval</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-BAT-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Cullet Preheater — Maintenance Procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Step-by-step maintenance procedure for the cullet preheater covering safety isolation, burner servicing, sensor calibration, conveyor checks, and verification."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="isolation-tag;inspection-checklist;calibration-form;service-report;verification-signoff"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:glass-production;usecase:procedural-guidance;industry:glassmanufacturing"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="procedure,maintenance,safety,inspection,verification"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="procedure"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Plant or Third Party personnel shall follow and be familiar with Procedure FUR-02-001
               Furnace Safety.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Plant or Third Party personnel shall be trained according to Training Material
               BAT-04-030 Cullet Preheater Operation and Maintenance Manual - v6.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Plant or Third Party personnel shall inspect and maintain the cullet preheater system
               according to the requirements and frequencies specified within MSDR BAT-07-040 Cullet
               Preheater Maintenance Conditions.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">The cullet preheater system shall be cleaned according to Work Instruction BAT-03-009
               Cullet Preheater Cleaning.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">All spares identified in MSDR BAT-07-040 Cullet Preheater Maintenance Conditions shall
               be maintained and on site for use in case of failure.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">All personnel shall notify their direct supervisor before performing any activities on the cullet preheater system or ancillary equipment.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">When performing any maintenance tasks, personnel shall follow the approved method for
               starting and stopping the cullet preheater as defined in Procedure BAT-02-030 Cullet
               Preheater Operation.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Emergency dilution fan(s) shall always be operationally ready, set to automatic, and connected to a backup power system.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Space policy for permit-required confined spaces shall be followed.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The cullet preheater is considered a permit-required confined space.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The cullet silo is considered a permit-required confined space.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The batch silo is considered a permit-required confined space.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The ductwork is considered a permit-required confined space.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Inspection ports shall not be opened during on-line (hot) operation unless following
               the method specified in Work Instruction BAT-03-009 Cullet Preheater Cleaning.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Only authorized personnel shall manually override automatic valves. </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
