<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
           id="ElectricalSafety-D96744C4"
           otherprops="Public"
           product="SchneiderElectric"
           translate="yes"
           xml:lang="en"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Electrical Safety</title>
   <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc "/>
   <prolog>
      <author>Pallavi</author>
      
      <critdates class="- topic/critdates ">
         <created date="2025-11-26+05:30" class="- topic/created "/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-26" class="- topic/revised "/>
      </critdates>
      
      <metadata>
         
         <audience type="role" otherprops="production,maintenance,quality,safety,engineering,management"/>
         
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>ups-system</indexterm>
            <indexterm>backfeed-protection-device</indexterm>
            <indexterm>external-isolators</indexterm>
            <indexterm>protective-earth-terminal</indexterm>
            <indexterm>internal-energy-source</indexterm>
            <indexterm>disconnection-device</indexterm>
            <indexterm>isolation-device</indexterm>
            <indexterm>iec-en-62040-1-standard</indexterm>
            <indexterm>ul1778-standard</indexterm>
            <indexterm>metr-pxc-reality</indexterm>
            
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>electrical-safety-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>arc-flash-prevention</indexterm>
            <indexterm>ppe-compliance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hazardous-voltage-checking</indexterm>
            <indexterm>safe-installation-practice</indexterm>
            <indexterm>equipment-isolation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>backfeed-risk-mitigation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>system-disconnection</indexterm>
            <indexterm>grounding-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>regulatory-compliance-check</indexterm>
            
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>electrical-hazard-environment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>industrial-power-systems</indexterm>
            <indexterm>restricted-access-installation-area</indexterm>
            <indexterm>critical-power-infrastructure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>it-power-distribution-system</indexterm>
            <indexterm>high-leakage-current-environment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>ups-maintenance-area</indexterm>
            <indexterm>industrial-safety-compliance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>arc-flash-risk-zone</indexterm>
            <indexterm>equipment-servicing-environment</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-PXC-Reality</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         
         <othermeta name="title" content="Electrical Safety"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Electrical safety instructions for UPS installation and maintenance, including shock, arc flash, grounding, and backfeed protection requirements."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         
         <othermeta name="entities"
            content="ups-system;external-isolators;disconnection-device;backfeed-protection;iec-en-62040-1;ul1778;protective-earth;internal-energy-source;ppe;hazard-label"/>
         
         <othermeta name="taxonomy"
            content="domain:industrial-engineering/electrical-safety;usecase:electrical-safety-and-hazard-prevention;industry:uninterruptible power supply (UPS) systems"/>
         
         <othermeta name="tags"
            content="electrical-safety,arc-flash,shock-hazard,backfeed-protection,grounding-procedure,ppe-guidelines,ups-maintenance,regulatory-compliance"/>
         
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="electrical-safety-and-hazard-prevention"/>
         
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <hazardstatement outputclass="electric"
                          type="danger"
                          class="+ topic/note hazard-d/hazardstatement ">
            <messagepanel class="+ topic/ul hazard-d/messagepanel ">
               <typeofhazard class="+ topic/li hazard-d/typeofhazard ">hazard of electric shock, explosion, or arc flash</typeofhazard>
               <howtoavoid class="+ topic/li hazard-d/howtoavoid ">
                  <sl class="- topic/sl ">
                     <sli class="- topic/sli ">Electrical equipment must be installed, operated, serviced, and
maintained only by qualified personnel.</sli>
                     <sli class="- topic/sli ">Apply appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) and follow
safe electrical work practices.</sli>
                     <sli class="- topic/sli ">Turn off all power supplying the UPS system before working on
or inside the equipment.</sli>
                     <sli class="- topic/sli ">Before working on the UPS system, check for hazardous voltage
between all terminals including the protective earth.</sli>
                     <sli class="- topic/sli ">The UPS contains an internal energy source. Hazardous voltage
can be present even when disconnected from the mains supply. Before
installing or servicing the UPS system, ensure that the units are
OFF and that mains and batteries are disconnected. Wait five minutes
before opening the UPS to allow the capacitors to discharge.</sli>
                     <sli class="- topic/sli ">The UPS must be properly earthed/grounded and due to a high leakage
current, the earthing/grounding conductor must be connected first.</sli>
                  </sl>
               </howtoavoid>
            </messagepanel>
         </hazardstatement>
         <hazardstatement outputclass="electric"
                          type="danger"
                          class="+ topic/note hazard-d/hazardstatement ">
            <messagepanel class="+ topic/ul hazard-d/messagepanel ">
               <typeofhazard class="+ topic/li hazard-d/typeofhazard ">Hazard of electric shock, explosion, or arc flash</typeofhazard>
               <howtoavoid class="+ topic/li hazard-d/howtoavoid ">In systems where backfeed protection is not part of the
standard design, an automatic isolation device (backfeed protection
option or other device meeting the requirements of IEC/EN 62040–1 <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">or</b> UL1778 5th Edition – depending on which of the two
standards apply to your local area) must be installed to prevent hazardous
voltage or energy at the input terminals of the isolation device.
The device must open within 15 seconds after the upstream power supply
fails and must be rated according to the specifications.</howtoavoid>
            </messagepanel>
         </hazardstatement>
         <p id="WhenTheUPSInputIsConnectedThroughEx-E5439CD1" class="- topic/p ">When the UPS input
is connected through external isolators that, when opened, isolate
the neutral or when the automatic backfeed isolation is provided external
to the equipment or is connected to an IT power distribution system,
a label must be fitted at the UPS input terminals, and on all primary
power isolators installed remote from the UPS area and on external
access points between such isolators and the UPS, by the user, displaying
the following text (or equivalent in a language which is acceptable
in the country in which the UPS system is installed):</p>
         <hazardstatement outputclass="electric"
                          type="danger"
                          class="+ topic/note hazard-d/hazardstatement ">
            <messagepanel class="+ topic/ul hazard-d/messagepanel ">
               <typeofhazard class="+ topic/li hazard-d/typeofhazard ">Hazard of electric shock, explosion, or arc flash</typeofhazard>
               <howtoavoid class="+ topic/li hazard-d/howtoavoid ">Risk of Voltage Backfeed. Before working on this circuit:
Isolate the UPS and check for hazardous voltage between all terminals
including the protective earth.</howtoavoid>
            </messagepanel>
         </hazardstatement>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
