<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
           id="ElectricalSafety-AB82E175"
           translate="yes"
           xml:lang="en"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Electrical Safety</title>
   <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc "/>
   <prolog>
      <author>Pallavi</author>
      
      <critdates class="- topic/critdates ">
         <created date="2025-11-26+05:30" class="- topic/created "/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-26" class="- topic/revised "/>
      </critdates>
      
      <metadata>
         
         <audience type="role" otherprops="production,maintenance,quality,safety,engineering,management"/>
         
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>ups-system</indexterm>
            <indexterm>ups-input-terminals</indexterm>
            <indexterm>external-isolators</indexterm>
            <indexterm>protective-earth-terminal</indexterm>
            <indexterm>internal-energy-source</indexterm>
            <indexterm>mains-disconnection-points</indexterm>
            <indexterm>battery-disconnection-points</indexterm>
            <indexterm>capacitor-bank</indexterm>
            <indexterm>earthing-conductor</indexterm>
            <indexterm>metr-pxc-reality</indexterm>
            
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>electrical-safety-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lockout-tagout-loto</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hazardous-voltage-verification</indexterm>
            <indexterm>safe-installation-practice</indexterm>
            <indexterm>safe-maintenance-practice</indexterm>
            <indexterm>ppe-application</indexterm>
            <indexterm>equipment-isolation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>grounding-and-earthing</indexterm>
            <indexterm>arc-flash-prevention</indexterm>
            <indexterm>backfeed-risk-evaluation</indexterm>
            
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>electrical-hazard-environment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>industrial-power-systems</indexterm>
            <indexterm>critical-power-infrastructure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>it-power-distribution-system</indexterm>
            <indexterm>ups-installation-area</indexterm>
            <indexterm>high-leakage-current-environment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-safety-guidelines</indexterm>
            <indexterm>arc-flash-risk-zone</indexterm>
            <indexterm>equipment-servicing-environment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>industrial-safety-compliance</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-PXC-Reality</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         
         <othermeta name="title" content="Electrical Safety"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Safety instructions and hazard warnings for the installation and maintenance of UPS systems, including shock, backfeed, and arc flash prevention measures."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         
         <othermeta name="entities"
            content="ups-system;external-isolators;protective-earth;ppe;internal-energy-source;capacitors;disconnect-devices;neutral-isolators;backfeed-isolation;hazard-labels"/>
         
         <othermeta name="taxonomy"
            content="domain:industrial-engineering/electrical-safety;usecase:electrical-safety-and-hazard-prevention;industry:uninterruptible power supply (UPS) systems"/>
         
         <othermeta name="tags"
            content="electrical-safety,arc-flash,shock-hazard,backfeed-risk,earthing-procedure,ups-maintenance,ppe-guidelines"/>
         
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="electrical-safety-and-hazard-prevention"/>
         
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">This manual contains important safety instructions that
should be followed during the installation and maintenance of the
UPS system.</p>
         <hazardstatement outputclass="electric"
                          type="danger"
                          class="+ topic/note hazard-d/hazardstatement ">
            <messagepanel class="+ topic/ul hazard-d/messagepanel ">
               <typeofhazard class="+ topic/li hazard-d/typeofhazard ">hazard of electric shock, explosion, or arc flash</typeofhazard>
               <howtoavoid class="+ topic/li hazard-d/howtoavoid ">
                  <sl class="- topic/sl ">
                     <sli class="- topic/sli ">Electrical equipment must be installed, operated, serviced, and
maintained only by qualified personnel.</sli>
                     <sli class="- topic/sli ">Apply appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) and follow
safe electrical work practices.</sli>
                     <sli class="- topic/sli ">Disconnection devices for AC and DC must be provided by others,
be readily accessible, and the function of the disconnect device marked
for its function.</sli>
                     <sli class="- topic/sli ">Turn off all power supplying the UPS system before working on
or inside the equipment.</sli>
                     <sli class="- topic/sli ">Before working on the UPS system, check for hazardous voltage
between all terminals including the protective earth.</sli>
                     <sli class="- topic/sli ">The UPS contains an internal energy source. Hazardous voltage
can be present even when disconnected from the mains supply. Before
installing or servicing the UPS system, ensure that the units are
OFF and that mains and batteries are disconnected. Wait five minutes
before opening the UPS to allow the capacitors to discharge.</sli>
                     <sli class="- topic/sli ">The UPS must be properly earthed/grounded and due to a high leakage
current, the earthing/grounding conductor must be connected first.</sli>
                  </sl>
               </howtoavoid>
            </messagepanel>
         </hazardstatement>
         <p id="WhenTheUPSInputIsConnectedThroughEx-E5439CD1" class="- topic/p ">When the UPS input
is connected through external isolators that, when opened, isolate
the neutral or when the automatic backfeed isolation is provided external
to the equipment or is connected to an IT power distribution system,
a label must be fitted at the UPS input terminals, and on all primary
power isolators installed remotely from the UPS area and on external
access points between such isolators and the UPS, by the user, displaying
the following text (or equivalent in a language which is acceptable
in the country in which the UPS system is installed):</p>
         <hazardstatement outputclass="electric"
                          type="danger"
                          class="+ topic/note hazard-d/hazardstatement ">
            <messagepanel class="+ topic/ul hazard-d/messagepanel ">
               <typeofhazard class="+ topic/li hazard-d/typeofhazard ">Hazard of electric shock, explosion, or arc flash</typeofhazard>
               <howtoavoid class="+ topic/li hazard-d/howtoavoid ">Risk of voltage backfeed. Before working on this circuit:
Isolate the UPS and check for hazardous voltage between all terminals
including the protective earth.</howtoavoid>
            </messagepanel>
         </hazardstatement>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
