<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
           id="OperationModes-67820718"
           otherprops="Public"
           translate="yes"
           xml:lang="en"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Operation Modes</title>
   <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc ">
      <keyword class="- topic/keyword ">Reality NAM 25–100 kVA</keyword>
   </shortdesc>
   <prolog>
      <author>Pallavi</author>
      <critdates class="- topic/critdates ">
         <created date="2025-11-12+05:30" class="- topic/created "/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-12" class="- topic/revised "/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="production,maintenance,quality,safety,engineering,management"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metR-pxc-reality</indexterm>
            <indexterm>reality-pxc-series</indexterm>
            <indexterm>reality-pxc-ups</indexterm>
            <indexterm>reality-pxc-25kva</indexterm>
            <indexterm>reality-pxc-50kva</indexterm>
            <indexterm>reality-pxc-75kva</indexterm>
            <indexterm>reality-pxc-100kva</indexterm>
            <indexterm>reality-pxc-control-panel</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>normal-operation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>battery-operation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>static-bypass-operation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>manual-transfer</indexterm>
            <indexterm>start-up-shutdown-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>status-led-interpretation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>eco-mode</indexterm>
            <indexterm>load-transfer</indexterm>
            <indexterm>system-status-leds</indexterm>
            <indexterm>mode-transition</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>operation-modes</indexterm>
            <indexterm>load-protection</indexterm>
            <indexterm>power-conditioning</indexterm>
            <indexterm>site-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>redundancy-management</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-checks</indexterm>
            <indexterm>control-room</indexterm>
            <indexterm>monitoring-environment</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-PXC-Reality</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Operation Modes"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Description of operation modes for Reality PXC 25–100 kVA (208V): normal, battery, static bypass and manual transfer with status indicators."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="control-panel;status-leds;static-bypass;battery-mode;manual-transfer-switch"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:industrial-engineering;usecase:operation-modes;industry: uninterruptible power supply (UPS) systems"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="operation-modes,normal,battery,static-bypass,manual-transfer,eco-mode"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="describe-and-interpret-ups-operation-modes"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Normal Operation</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">During normal operation,
the UPS supports the load with conditioned power. While the UPS is
in normal operation, the status LED <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Normal operation</uicontrol> is green.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Battery Operation</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">If the utility/mains supply
becomes unavailable or outside specified limits, the UPS transfers
to battery operation and supports the load with conditioned power
from the DC source. While the UPS system is in battery operation,
the status LED <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Battery operation</uicontrol> is yellow. </p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Temporary Static Bypass Operation</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">The UPS
is in temporary static bypass following a command from the UPS system.
During temporary static bypass operation, the load is supplied by
the bypass source. If there is an interruption to the utility/mains
power supply during temporary static bypass operation, the system
will transfer to battery operation. The load may experience a short
duration interruption of power (4 to 8 ms) during this transfer. While
the UPS system is in temporary static bypass operation, the status
LED <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Bypass operation</uicontrol> is yellow.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Requested Static Bypass Operation</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">The UPS
can be transferred to requested static bypass operation following
a command from the display. During static bypass operation, the load
is supplied from the bypass source. If there is an interruption to
the utility/mains power supply during requested static bypass operation,
the system will transfer to battery operation. The load may experience
a short duration interruption of power (4 to 8 ms) during this transfer.
While the UPS system is in requested static bypass, the status LED <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Bypass operation</uicontrol> is yellow. </p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">ECO Mode</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">The UPS can be transferred to ECO
mode with a command from the display or when ECO mode is enabled.
The system will automatically switch to ECO mode after the system
has been running for one minute in normal operation and the bypass
voltage quality is within the acceptable limits. ECO mode will transfer
the system to static bypass operation. In this operation mode the
total system efficiency is increased. The load is supplied from the
bypass source. To avoid interruptions during the transfer, the voltage,
frequency and phase relation of the UPS system must be synchronized
to the bypass source. The UPS will transfer to normal or battery operation
if the bypass source becomes unavailable or if the bypass voltage
quality drops below the acceptable limits. While the UPS system is
in ECO mode, the status LED <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Bypass operation</uicontrol> is yellow.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Maintenance Bypass Operation</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">In maintenance
bypass operation, the load is supplied by unconditioned power from
the bypass input via the maintenance bypass breaker (MBB). The batteries
are not available as an alternate power source in maintenance bypass
operation.</p>
         <hazardstatement type="danger" class="+ topic/note hazard-d/hazardstatement ">
            <messagepanel class="+ topic/ul hazard-d/messagepanel ">
               <typeofhazard class="+ topic/li hazard-d/typeofhazard ">Hazard of electric shock, explosion, or arc flash</typeofhazard>
               <howtoavoid class="+ topic/li hazard-d/howtoavoid ">The UPS with transformer in maintenance bypass operation
still contain energized components in both the UPS cabinet and the
transformer cabinet (if present). All sources to the UPS and transformer
must be shut off before any work can be carried out on the units.
The load will not be supported.</howtoavoid>
            </messagepanel>
         </hazardstatement>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
