<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
           id="APCBySchneiderElectricLimitedFactor-B2574F72"
           translate="yes"
           xml:lang="en"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Limited Factory Warranty</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Pallavi</author>
      <critdates class="- topic/critdates ">
         <created date="2025-11-17+05:30" class="- topic/created "/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-17" class="- topic/revised "/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="production,maintenance,quality,safety,engineering,management"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-pxc-reality</indexterm>
            <indexterm>schneider-electric</indexterm>
            <indexterm>factory-warranty</indexterm>
            <indexterm>warranty-terms</indexterm>
            <indexterm>warranty-exclusions</indexterm>
            <indexterm>service-contract</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>warranty-registration</indexterm>
            <indexterm>claim-process</indexterm>
            <indexterm>authorized-service</indexterm>
            <indexterm>fault-reporting</indexterm>
            <indexterm>repair-authorization</indexterm>
            <indexterm>return-material-authorization</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>installation-site</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-workshop</indexterm>
            <indexterm>service-center</indexterm>
            <indexterm>quality-assurance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>procurement</indexterm>
            <indexterm>asset-management</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-PXC-Reality</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Schneider Electric Limited — Factory Warranty"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Factory warranty terms, exclusions and claim procedures for Schneider Electric UPS products."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="metr-pxc-reality;schneider-electric;factory-warranty;service-contract;rma"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:industrial-engineering;usecase:warranty-and-service;industry: uninterruptible power supply (UPS) systems"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="warranty,claim-process,authorized-service,service-contract,rma"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="warranty-and-service"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">One-Year Factory Warranty</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">The limited warranty
provided by Schneider Electric in this Statement of Limited Factory
Warranty applies only to products you purchase for your commercial
or industrial use in the ordinary course of your business.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Terms of Warranty</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Schneider Electric warrants
that the product shall be free from defects in materials and workmanship
for a period of one year from the date of product start-up when start-up
is performed by Schneider Electric-authorized service personnel and
occurs within six months of the Schneider Electric shipment date.
This warranty covers repairing or replacing any defective parts including
on-site labor and travel. In the event that the product fails to meet
the foregoing warranty criteria, the warranty covers repairing or
replacing defective parts at the sole discretion of Schneider Electric
for a period of one year from the shipment date. For Schneider Electric
cooling solutions, this warranty does not cover circuit breaker resetting,
loss of refrigerant, consumables, or preventive maintenance items.
Repair or replacement of a defective product or part thereof does
not extend the original warranty period. Any parts furnished under
this warranty may be new or factory-remanufactured.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Non-transferable Warranty</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">This warranty
is extended to the first person, firm, association or corporation
(herein referred to by “You” or “Your”)
for whom the Schneider Electric product specified herein has been
purchased. This warranty is not transferable or assignable without
the prior written permission of Schneider Electric.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Assignment of Warranties</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Schneider Electric
will assign you any warranties which are made by manufacturers and
suppliers of components of the Schneider Electric product and which
are assignable. Any such warranties are assigned “AS IS”
and Schneider Electric makes no representation as to the effectiveness
or extent of such warranties, assumes no responsibility for any matters
which may be warranted by such manufacturers or suppliers and extends
no coverage under this Warranty to such components.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Drawings, Descriptions</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Schneider Electric
warrants for the warranty period and on the terms of the warranty
set forth herein that the Schneider Electric product will substantially
conform to the descriptions contained in the Schneider Electric Official
Published Specifications or any of the drawings certified and agreed
to by contract with Schneider Electric if applicable thereto (“Specifications”).
It is understood that the Specifications are not warranties of performance
and not warranties of fitness for a particular purpose.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Exclusions</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Schneider Electric shall not
be liable under the warranty if its testing and examination disclose
that the alleged defect in the product does not exist or was caused
by end user or any third person misuse, negligence, improper installation
or testing. Further, Schneider Electric shall not be liable under
the warranty for unauthorized attempts to repair or modify wrong or
inadequate electrical voltage or connection, inappropriate on-site
operation conditions, corrosive atmosphere, repair, installation,
start-up by non-Schneider Electric designated personnel, a change
in location or operating use, exposure to the elements, Acts of God,
fire, theft, or installation contrary to Schneider Electric recommendations
or specifications or in any event if the Schneider Electric serial
number has been altered, defaced, or removed, or any other cause beyond
the range of the intended use.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">THERE ARE NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, BY OPERATION OF LAW OR OTHERWISE, OF PRODUCTS SOLD, SERVICED
OR FURNISHED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT OR IN CONNECTION HEREWITH. SCHNEIDER
ELECTRIC DISCLAIMS ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTION
AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC EXPRESS WARRANTIES
WILL NOT BE ENLARGED, DIMINISHED, OR AFFECTED BY AND NO OBLIGATION
OR LIABILITY WILL ARISE OUT OF, SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC RENDERING OF TECHNICAL
OR OTHER ADVICE OR SERVICE IN CONNECTION WITH THE PRODUCTS. THE FOREGOING
WARRANTIES AND REMEDIES ARE EXCLUSIVE AND IN LIEU OF ALL OTHER WARRANTIES
AND REMEDIES. THE WARRANTIES SET FORTH ABOVE CONSTITUTE SCHNEIDER
ELECTRIC SOLE LIABILITY AND PURCHASER’S EXCLUSIVE REMEDY FOR
ANY BREACH OF SUCH WARRANTIES. SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC WARRANTIES RUN ONLY
TO PURCHASER AND ARE NOT EXTENDED TO ANY THIRD PARTIES.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">IN NO
EVENT SHALL SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC, ITS OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, AFFILIATES
OR EMPLOYEES BE LIABLE FOR ANY FORM OF INDIRECT, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL
OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, ARISING OUT OF THE USE, SERVICE OR INSTALLATION,
OF THE PRODUCTS, WHETHER SUCH DAMAGES ARISE IN CONTRACT OR TORT, IRRESPECTIVE
OF FAULT, NEGLIGENCE OR STRICT LIABILITY OR WHETHER SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC
HAS BEEN ADVISED IN ADVANCE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES, SPECIFICALLY,
SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC IS NOT LIABLE FOR ANY COSTS, SUCH AS LOST PROFITS
OR REVENUE, LOSS OF EQUIPMENT, LOSS OF USE OF EQUIPMENT, LOSS OF SOFTWARE,
LOSS OF DATA, COSTS OF SUBSTITUANTS, CLAIMS BY THIRD PARTIES, OR OTHERWISE.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">NO SALESMAN, EMPLOYEE OR AGENT OF SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC IS AUTHORIZED
TO ADD TO OR VARY THE TERMS OF THIS WARRANTY. WARRANTY TERMS MAY BE
MODIFIED, IF AT ALL, ONLY IN WRITING SIGNED BY AN SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC
OFFICER AND LEGAL DEPARTMENT.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Warranty Claims</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Customers with warranty
claims issues may access the SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC worldwide customer
support network through the SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC web site: <xref href="http://www.schneider-electric.com"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">http://www.schneider-electric.com</xref>. Select your country from
the country selection pull-down menu. Open the Support tab at the
top of the web page to obtain contact information for customer support
in your region.</p>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
