<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
           id="FunctioningOfTheLCM-90C15C05"
           otherprops="Public"
           translate="yes"
           xml:lang="en"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Functioning of the LCM</title>
   <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc ">
      <keyword class="- topic/keyword ">Reality EMEA</keyword>
   </shortdesc>
   <prolog>
      <author>Pallavi</author>
      <critdates class="- topic/critdates ">
         <created date="2025-11-18+05:30" class="- topic/created "/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-18" class="- topic/revised "/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="production,maintenance,quality,safety,engineering,management"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-pxc-reality</indexterm>
            <indexterm>local-control-module-lcm</indexterm>
            <indexterm>display-and-control-unit</indexterm>
            <indexterm>status-indicator-panel</indexterm>
            <indexterm>control-firmware</indexterm>
            <indexterm>sensor-interface</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>normal-operation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>status-monitoring</indexterm>
            <indexterm>alarm-detection</indexterm>
            <indexterm>parameter-adjustment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>data-logging</indexterm>
            <indexterm>diagnostic-readouts</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>operational-dashboard</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operator-handover</indexterm>
            <indexterm>control-room-monitoring</indexterm>
            <indexterm>process-visibility</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-feedback-loop</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-PXC-Reality</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Functioning of the LCM"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Explains LCM behaviour during normal operation, indicators, and how to interpret diagnostic messages for troubleshooting."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="local-control-module;lcm-display;status-leds;sensor-interfaces;diagnostic-codes;event-log"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:industrial-engineering;usecase:operation-and-diagnostics;industry: uninterruptible power supply (UPS) systems"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="operation,diagnostics,lcm,status,monitoring"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="operation-and-diagnostics"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <refbody>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">LCM at System Start-Up</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">During system start-up,
the LCM module checks if the counters have already been started.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">If the counters have been started before the actual start-up date,
the actual LCM status is reloaded from the Flash memory.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">If
the counters have not been started before the start-up, the actual
date is stored in RAM and will be used as the system start-up date.<ul class="- topic/ul ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Once the system has been running (at least in standby) for
5 consecutive days without interruption, the LCM module considers
the system to be commissioned and automatically stores the initial
start-up date in the Flash memory as the UPS start-up date. This date
is also stored as the start date for each of the five LCM counters.</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">If during these first five days, the LCM action <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Start counters now</uicontrol> is performed by the FSR, the actual
date is stored as the UPS start-up date and as start date for each
of the five LCM counters.</p>
               </li>
            </ul>
         </p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">LCM During Runtime</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">After the counters have
been started, the LCM module checks once per day if a counter has
reached its elapse date. If the elapse date has been reached, the
corresponding counter elapse flags this and the number of remaining
pop-up repeats are set in RAM and Flash. An entry is added to the
event log.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Once per minute, the LCM module checks if there is
a pop-up message to be displayed on the display. A pop-up will be
displayed if the elapse flag of a counter is set, there are remaining
repeats, and the repeat period is over. If another LCM pop-up is already
shown on the display, this will not be overwritten.</p>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
