<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
           id="OperationModesForUPSSystemWithASBSA-95639A44"
           translate="yes"
           xml:lang="en"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Operation Modes</title>
   <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc ">
      <keyword class="- topic/keyword ">Reality EMEA 10–80 kVA</keyword>
   </shortdesc>
   <prolog>
      <author>Pallavi</author>
      <critdates class="- topic/critdates ">
         <created date="2025-11-18+05:30" class="- topic/created "/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-18" class="- topic/revised "/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="[production, maintenance, quality, safety, engineering, management]"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-pxc-reality</indexterm>
            <indexterm>manual-bypass-switch</indexterm>
            <indexterm>bypass-contactors</indexterm>
            <indexterm>transfer-switch</indexterm>
            <indexterm>input-breaker</indexterm>
            <indexterm>output-breaker</indexterm>
            
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>operation-mode-switching</indexterm>
            <indexterm>switch-to-bypass</indexterm>
            <indexterm>switch-to-normal</indexterm>
            <indexterm>safe-isolation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-mode-activation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>emergency-transfer-procedure</indexterm>
            
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>maintenance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>service-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>scheduled-downtime</indexterm>
            <indexterm>parallel-operation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>commissioning</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-PXC-Reality</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Operation modes UPS System with 2-Position Manual Bypass Switch"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Explains UPS operation modes for systems with a 2-position manual bypass switch and safe switching sequences for maintenance."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="manual-bypass-switch; bypass-contactors; transfer-switch; input-breaker; output-breaker"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:industrial-engineering;usecase:operation-and-maintenance;industry: uninterruptible power supply (UPS) systems"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="operation-modes, manual-bypass, switching-procedure, safety, maintenance"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="operation-and-maintenance"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <indexterm class="- topic/indexterm ">manual bypass switch</indexterm>
         <sectiondiv class="- topic/sectiondiv ">
            <p class="- topic/p ">The manual bypass switch (Q601) offers the possibility of setting
the system volt-free when performing work inside the system, e.g.
service and maintenance. There is no interruption to the load when
the switch is switched over. Two positions are available:<ul class="- topic/ul ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <ph translate="no" class="- topic/ph ">AUTO</ph>: In this position, the load is supplied
by the UPS.<indexterm class="- topic/indexterm ">manual bypass switch<indexterm class="- topic/indexterm ">AUTO position</indexterm>
                     </indexterm>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <ph translate="no" class="- topic/ph ">BYPASS</ph>: In this position the load is supplied
directly from the bypass mains.<indexterm class="- topic/indexterm ">manual bypass switch<indexterm class="- topic/indexterm ">BYPASS position</indexterm>
                     </indexterm>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </p>
         </sectiondiv>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Normal Operation</title>
         <sectiondiv class="- topic/sectiondiv ">
            <p class="- topic/p ">In normal operation, the manual bypass switch must be in the position <ph translate="no" class="- topic/ph ">AUTO</ph>.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">During normal operation, the UPS supports
the load with conditioned power.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">While the UPS is in normal
operation, the status LED <ph translate="no" class="- topic/ph ">Normal operation</ph> is green.</p>
         </sectiondiv>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Battery Operation</title>
         <sectiondiv class="- topic/sectiondiv ">
            <p class="- topic/p ">In battery
operation, the manual bypass switch must be in the position <ph translate="no" class="- topic/ph ">AUTO</ph>.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">If the input source becomes unavailable
or outside the specified limits, the UPS transfers to battery operation
and supports the load with conditioned power from the DC source.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">If the input source is recovered, the system is automatically
transferred back to normal operation.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">While the UPS system is
in battery operation, the status LED <ph translate="no" class="- topic/ph ">Battery operation</ph> is yellow. </p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">If the battery discharge limit is approached an
alarm is activated. If the batteries are depleted, the system transfers
to bypass operation if the bypass source is available and within tolerance.
If the input source or the bypass source are still unavailable, the
UPS system will turn off and stop supplying the load, but if <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Auto Start</uicontrol> is configured for the UPS system, then the
UPS will automatically restart and return to normal operation again
as soon as the input source is recovered.<indexterm class="- topic/indexterm ">Auto Start</indexterm>
            </p>
         </sectiondiv>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Temporary Static Bypass Operation</title>
         <sectiondiv class="- topic/sectiondiv ">
            <note id="TheStaticBypassOperationModeIsConsi-4D0D4E21"
                  type="important"
                  class="- topic/note ">The static bypass operation modes are considered
as non-usual and non-repetitive operation modes.</note>
            <p class="- topic/p ">In temporary
static bypass operation, the manual bypass switch must be in the position <ph translate="no" class="- topic/ph ">AUTO</ph>.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">The UPS is in temporary static bypass
following an event in the UPS system (inverter inoperable, no input
source available, no battery runtime available). During temporary
static bypass operation, the load is supplied by the bypass source.
When the cause of the automatic transfer is no longer present, the
system automatically transfers back to normal operation without interruption.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">While the UPS system is in temporary static bypass operation,
the status LED <ph translate="no" class="- topic/ph ">Bypass operation</ph> is yellow.</p>
         </sectiondiv>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Requested Static Bypass Operation</title>
         <sectiondiv class="- topic/sectiondiv ">
            <note conref="#OperationModesForUPSSystemWithASBSA-95639A44/TheStaticBypassOperationModeIsConsi-4D0D4E21"
                  type="-dita-use-conref-target"
                  class="- topic/note "/>
            <p class="- topic/p ">In requested static bypass
operation, the manual bypass switch must be in the position <ph translate="no" class="- topic/ph ">AUTO</ph>.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">The UPS can be transferred to requested
static bypass following a command from the display. During static
bypass operation, the load is supplied from the bypass source. To
avoid interruptions during the transfer, the voltage, frequency and
phase relation of the UPS system must be synchronized to the bypass
source. The UPS will transfer to normal or battery operation if the
bypass source becomes unavailable.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">While the UPS system is in
requested static bypass, the status LED <ph translate="no" class="- topic/ph ">Bypass
operation</ph> is yellow. </p>
         </sectiondiv>
      </section>
      <section otherprops="UL" class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">ECO Mode</title>
         <sectiondiv class="- topic/sectiondiv ">
            <p class="- topic/p ">In
ECO mode, the manual bypass switch must be in the position <ph translate="no" class="- topic/ph ">AUTO</ph>. The UPS can be transferred to ECO mode following
a command from the display or when enabled the system will automatically
switch to ECO mode after system has been running for one minute in
normal operation and the bypass voltage quality is above the acceptable
limits. ECO mode will transfer the system to static bypass operation.
In this operation mode the total system efficiency is increased. During
static bypass operation, the load is supplied from the bypass source.
To avoid interruptions during the transfer, the voltage, frequency
and phase relation of the UPS system must be synchronized to the bypass
source. The UPS will transfer to normal or battery operation if the
bypass source becomes unavailable or if the bypass voltage quality
drops below the acceptable limits. While the UPS system is in requested
static bypass, the status LED <ph translate="no" class="- topic/ph ">Bypass operation</ph> is yellow.</p>
         </sectiondiv>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Manual Bypass Operation</title>
         <sectiondiv class="- topic/sectiondiv ">
            <p class="- topic/p ">For
repair and maintenance work or work inside the system, the manual
bypass switch must be set to <ph translate="no" class="- topic/ph ">BYPASS</ph>.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">In manual bypass operation, the load is supplied with unconditioned
power from the bypass input via the manual bypass switch. The batteries
are not available as an alternate power source in manual bypass operation.</p>
         </sectiondiv>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Charger Only</title>
         <sectiondiv class="- topic/sectiondiv ">
            <p class="- topic/p ">When the UPS is
in charger mode, the UPS does not supply the connected load with power.</p>
         </sectiondiv>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Standby</title>
         <sectiondiv class="- topic/sectiondiv ">
            <p class="- topic/p ">When the UPS is in standby
mode, the UPS is OFF and does not supply the connected load with power,
and the batteries are not charged.</p>
         </sectiondiv>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">OFF</title>
         <sectiondiv class="- topic/sectiondiv ">
            <p class="- topic/p ">When the UPS is in OFF mode,
the UPS does not supply the connected load with power, and the batteries
are not charged.</p>
         </sectiondiv>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
