<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
           id="UseTheUPSTunerInformationRetrievalF-966B2E66"
           otherprops="Public"
           translate="yes"
           xml:lang="en"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Use the UPS Tuner Information Retrieval Functions</title>
   <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc ">
      <keyword class="- topic/keyword ">Reality EMEA</keyword>
   </shortdesc>
   <prolog>
      <author>Pallavi</author>
      <critdates class="- topic/critdates ">
         <created date="2025-11-18+05:30" class="- topic/created "/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-18" class="- topic/revised "/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="production, maintenance, quality, safety, engineering, management"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-pxc-reality</indexterm>
            <indexterm>ups</indexterm>
            <indexterm>ups-tuner</indexterm>
            <indexterm>controller-box</indexterm>
            <indexterm>display-module</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>information-retrieval</indexterm>
            <indexterm>tuner-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>view-parameters</indexterm>
            <indexterm>procedure-2</indexterm>
            <indexterm>procedure-3</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>maintenance-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>ups-troubleshooting</indexterm>
            <indexterm>industrial-production-floor</indexterm>
            <indexterm>diagnostic-usecase</indexterm>
            <indexterm>ups-installation</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-PXC-Reality</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Use the UPS Tuner Information Retrieval Functions"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="How to access and use the UPS Tuner information retrieval functions to read parameters and status."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="metr-pxc-reality;ups;ups-tuner;parameters;display-module"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:industrial-engineering;usecase:maintenance-operations;industry: uninterruptible power supply (UPS) systems"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="ups-tuner,information-retrieval,parameters"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="maintenance-operations"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">To access and retrieve information from the UPS, the menu
tabs in the bottom of the UPS Tuner window can be used:</p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Capture</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">The <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Capture</uicontrol> function generates an extract of the information shown in the terminal
window. Click on <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Start Capture</uicontrol>, and all actions
performed in the terminal window will be recorded. When all the needed
information has been shown in the terminal window, click on <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Stop Capture</uicontrol> to stop recording. A file containing all
the information you have had shown in the terminal window during capture
will be generated and saved locally on your laptop. If an existing
file is selected for saving the capture information, the new information
will be added at the end of the file.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Event Log Viewer</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">The filter function in
the <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Event Log Viewer</uicontrol> can be used to filter
events in the event log by module, date, event type or event description
for an easy overview of a single alarm. In the <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Event Log
Viewer</uicontrol> you can choose to either view current logs from
the terminal window, from a saved file or from the newest saved file.
Logs are gathered from the<uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol "> Service Inquiry</uicontrol> menu
listed in the main menu. Click on <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Display</uicontrol> to
see the filtered logs.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">UPS Report</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Using the function <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Create Report</uicontrol> under <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">UPS Report</uicontrol> generates a report containing all relevant information on the system.
The service-relevant information generated in the report is easily
understandable, but some information (raw data form) may be suitable
and understandable for PE and R&amp;D only as it requires qualified
interpretation. The created report is stored locally on your laptop.
Clicking on <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">View Report</uicontrol> allows you to see saved
reports in a dedicated window. <note class="- topic/note ">For any break-fix activities
the Tuner report must be attached in Intouch.</note>
         </p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">UPS Raw Data Viewer</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">In the <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">UPS
Raw Data Viewer</uicontrol> you choose which module to extract the
raw data from, e.g. the intelligence module. </p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Click on <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Translate</uicontrol> to get an adjusted and analyzed version of
the data with translated label for each raw data line. Once translated
the information can be saved in a .csv file. It is possible to save
several raw data extracts in one file by selecting the same file when
saving each raw data extract. In this case information is added at
the bottom of the file each time. The raw data extract can be very
useful for the technical support.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">RAW Data Viewer supports two
modes:<ul class="- topic/ul ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Offline mode (Tuner connection is not required here): When
the user clicks on <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Translate</uicontrol>, Tuner opens the
raw data translator window displaying some default values. In this
mode you can enter or modify the raw data manually.</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Online mode (Tuner must be connected to the UPS): Tuner automatically
captures the raw data from the controller once you click on <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Display</uicontrol> and translates the raw data when you click on <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Translate</uicontrol>. The raw data cannot be modified in this mode.</p>
               </li>
            </ul>
         </p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Settings</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">The <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Settings</uicontrol> function can be used to view, configure, export and import the UPS
settings. See <xref href="Configure_UPS_Settings_with_Tuner_TSK_0000148966.dita"
                  format="dita"
                  scope="local"
                  type="task"
                  class="- topic/xref "/>.</p>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
