<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
         id="c1D58977-BB01-11F0-1382-09173F13E4C5"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Review of Rescue Plan and Actions to be Taken</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T13:25:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T13:25:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="rescue team members, supervisors, safety officers, shift leads"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>rescue-action-checklist</indexterm>
            <indexterm>response-protocols</indexterm>
            <indexterm>communication-plan</indexterm>
            <indexterm>evacuation-route-maps</indexterm>
            <indexterm>metR-EHS-Space</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>incident-assessment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>rescue-deployment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>medical-first-response</indexterm>
            <indexterm>handover-to-emergency-services</indexterm>
            <indexterm>scene-stabilization</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>working-at-heights</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-shifts</indexterm>
            <indexterm>mro-activities</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operational-readiness</indexterm>
            <indexterm>safety-culture</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Review of rescue plan and actions to be taken"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Details specific actions and stepwise guidance rescue teams should take during working at heights incidents, including escalation and handover."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="action;rescue-team;casualty;communication;escalation"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:ehs;usecase:rescue-actions;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="actions,rescue,escalation,handover"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="prescribe rescue actions and escalation steps"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <ol class="- topic/ol ">
         <li class="- topic/li ">When a fall happens, another employee (Rescuer who has been previously trained in rescue procedures and rescue equipment handling) needs to <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">assess the situation and make contact with the fallen worker</b>, determining their status to consider if the fallen employee can self-rescue or not. If not, they check if the fallen person is conscious or not. <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">If not conscious, they call the external Emergency service before starting the rescuing procedure</b>.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">WARNING</u>: If a person hangs motionless for longer periods (10-20 minutes) in the full body harness, health risks can arise (hanging trauma: orthostatic shock, danger to life).</li>
            </ol>
         </li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">In the meantime, the emergency services will need to be contacted and the company alerted about the accident.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">Rescuer performs a visual and functional check of rescue equipment before use.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">Rescuer or another person has to clear and secure work areas where the rescue will take place, while they remain safe or if any ongoing work would obstruct a rescue. </li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">The next step is to immediately implement the rescue procedure in accordance with the company policy and safety guidelines.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">Consider usage of rescue kits which for example allow you to either lower the person to the ground or lift them up, depending on the situation. Make sure that the <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">rescue kit</b> is present at the point of work prior to the work commencing.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">If someone has fallen over an edge, Rescuer needs to <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">consider the additional friction</b> encountered when trying to raise the fallen worker, the anchor line being at a risk of cutting and generally be aware of the edge interfering with the rescue equipment.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">If an immediate rescue solution is not available, then try to support the fallen worker’s feet to make the restraint a bit more bearable.</li>
      </ol>
   </conbody>
</concept>
