<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="SecurityLegalInformation-5B1E3B07"
         translate="yes"
         xml:lang="en"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Legal Information</title>
   <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc "/>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-04T15:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-04T15:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="management,security,engineering,quality,service,production"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- product layer -->
            <indexterm>data-protection-clause</indexterm>
            <indexterm>telemetry-privacy-statement</indexterm>
            <indexterm>compliance-requirement</indexterm>
            <indexterm>export-control-notice</indexterm>
            <indexterm>service-contract-terms</indexterm>
            <!-- process layer -->
            <indexterm>legal-review-process</indexterm>
            <indexterm>data-retention-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>third-party-access-control</indexterm>
            <indexterm>incident-notification-workflow</indexterm>
            <indexterm>policy-acceptance-recording</indexterm>
            <!-- context layer -->
            <indexterm>regulatory-compliance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>industrial-data-privacy</indexterm>
            <indexterm>cross-border-data-transfer</indexterm>
            <indexterm>contractual-service-obligations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>audit-readiness</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-PXC-Reality</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="CySec legal information"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Legal and compliance information relevant to telemetry, monitoring and service delivery for industrial UPS systems."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="privacy clause;data retention schedule;contract clause;audit trail;notification contact"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:legal-compliance/usecase:cysec-compliance/industry:uninterruptible power supply (UPS) systems"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="compliance,privacy,audit,legal"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="summarise legal obligations for telemetry and service"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <conbody>
      <p class="- topic/p ">The Schneider Electric brand and any trademarks of Schneider Electric
SE and its subsidiaries referred to in this guide are the property
of Schneider Electric SE or its subsidiaries. All other brands may
be trademarks of their respective owners.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">This guide and its content are protected under applicable copyright
laws and furnished for informational use only. No part of this guide
may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means (electronic,
mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise), for any purpose,
without the prior written permission of Schneider Electric.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Schneider Electric does not grant any right or license for commercial
use of the guide or its content, except for a non-exclusive and personal
license to consult it on an "as is" basis. Schneider Electric Realitys
and equipment should be installed, operated, serviced, and maintained
only by qualified personnel.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">As standards, specifications, and designs change from time to time,
information contained in this guide may be subject to change without
notice.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">To the extent permitted by applicable law, no responsibility or
liability is assumed by Schneider Electric and its subsidiaries for
any errors or omissions in the informational content of this material
or consequences arising out of or resulting from the use of the information
contained herein.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
