<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="SecurityFeatures-5B1A3891"
         translate="yes"
         xml:lang="en"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Security Features of the Network Management Card</title>
   <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc "/>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-04T15:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-04T15:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="installation-engineer,commissioning-engineer,maintenance-technician,operations-staff,service-engineer"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- product layer -->
            <indexterm>network-management-card-ap9635</indexterm>
            <indexterm>nm-card-security-module</indexterm>
            <indexterm>communication-interface-board</indexterm>
            <indexterm>firmware-management-card</indexterm>
            <indexterm>cysec-network-module</indexterm>
            <!-- process layer -->
            <indexterm>secure-boot-configuration</indexterm>
            <indexterm>firmware-update-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>role-based-access-setup</indexterm>
            <indexterm>tls-certificate-installation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>audit-log-collection</indexterm>
            <!-- context layer -->
            <indexterm>data-center-integration</indexterm>
            <indexterm>industrial-control-network</indexterm>
            <indexterm>compliance-and-audit</indexterm>
            <indexterm>cyber-physical-protection</indexterm>
            <indexterm>secure-remote-service</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-PXC-Reality</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="security features of the network management card"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Describes network management card security capabilities including access control, firmware integrity, and secure communications."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="network management card;firmware;tls certificates;user accounts;audit logs"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:industrial-power;usecase:cybersecurity-hardening;industry:uninterruptible power supply systems"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="security,firmware,access-control,audit,tls"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="describe security controls and procedures for the network management card"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <conbody>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Overview of the security features available with the <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Network
Management Card (NMC)</b> in the network monitoring system.</p>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">User Interface and Access Options</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">The NMC
makes it possible to access the information from the Reality system
remotely or locally.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">The information can be accessed in different
ways: <ul class="- topic/ul ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">
                     <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Graphical User Interface (GUI)</b> also called the web interface,
with remote access from a web browser.</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">
                     <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Command Line Interface (CLI)</b>, with both local and remote
access options.</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">
                     <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)</b> and Modbus,
with both local and remote access options.</p>
               </li>
            </ul>
            <note class="- topic/note ">A proxy server cannot be used to access the NMC.</note>
         </p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">User Profiles and Access</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">To access the interface
of the NMC a login with a user name and password is required. For
higher security remote access can be managed by a <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Remote Authentication
Dial-In User Service (RADIUS)</b> server.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">The user name is case
sensitive (maximum 64 <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">American Standard Code for Information Interchange
(ASCII)</b> characters). There are five different user types:</p>
         <ul class="- topic/ul ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p ">Super User: Full access to all menus and options. Can add administrators.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p ">Administrator: Full access to all menus and options.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p ">Device Manager: Can only access the log options, event and
UPS menu.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p ">Read-Only User: Can view the same menus as the device manager,
but can’t login to the CLI and can’t configure, delete
data, or use file transfer options.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p ">Network-Only User: Can only access the web interface and CLI
remotely. Have access to network settings.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
         <p class="- topic/p ">A user is automatically logged out after 3 minutes (default
setting) of inactivity.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Password</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">No password or passphrase is stored
on the NMC as plain text. <ul class="- topic/ul ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">The password is case sensitive (maximum 64 ASCII characters).</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Passwords are hashed before they are stored using a one-way
hash algorithm.</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Passphrases used for authentication and encryption are encrypted
before they are stored.</p>
               </li>
            </ul>
         </p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">It is recommended to change the password after the first
log-in and on a regular basis.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">RADIUS Server</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">RADIUS is an authentication,
authorization and accounting service. Used to centrally administer
remote access individually for one or multiple NMC’s. With
RADIUS each time a user tries to access the NMC, an authentication
request is sent to the RADIUS server. Based on the user’s permission
level the RADIUS server can accept, challenge or reject the request.
With a RADIUS server a user can, for example, be allowed access if
the user is signing in from the company network, but be denied access
when trying to sign in with a <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Virtual Private Network (VPN)</b>. The RADIUS server can challenge a request by asking the user to
provide a secondary password for example a PIN, token or card.</p>
      </section>
      <section id="ConnectionOptionsAndNetworkProtocol-62AC28C6"
               class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Connection Options and Network Protocols</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">The NMC supports
remote and local connections via multiple standards with different
security levels.</p>
         <note class="- topic/note ">A protocol without encryption transmits
information as plain text. Someone that monitors the network traffic
can determine user names and passwords used to access the NMC interface.</note>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Local access to the CLI uses a serial cable connection.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Remote access to the CLI can be established with: <ul class="- topic/ul ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Telnet</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">
                     <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Secure Shell (SSH)</b>, encrypted</p>
               </li>
            </ul>
         </p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Remote access to the web interface can be established
with: <ul class="- topic/ul ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">
                     <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)</b>
                  </p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">
                     <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS)</b>, encrypted,
uses <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)</b>
                  </p>
               </li>
            </ul>
         </p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Other access options to the NMC are: <ul class="- topic/ul ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">
                     <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Simple Network Management Protocol v1 (SNMPv1)</b>
                  </p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">
                     <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Simple Network Management Protocol v3 (SNMPv3)</b>, encrypted</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Modbus serial</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Modbus 2-wired or 4-wired</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Modbus <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)</b>
                  </p>
               </li>
            </ul>
         </p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">If a <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Local Area Network (LAN)</b> is used, there is
an option to use the <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Extensible Authentication Protocol over LAN
(EAPoL)</b> protocol (IEEE 802.1X) for extra security.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Firmware</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Keep the firmware of the NMC updated
to ensure that: <ul class="- topic/ul ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">The NMC has the latest bug fixes and performance improvements.</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">The newest features can be used.</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">All NMC’s on the network have the same firmware version
and support the same features in the same way.</p>
               </li>
            </ul>
         </p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">There are multiple ways to update the firmware, all of
them are secured with digital signature to make sure only verified
firmware files can be used.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">File Transfer</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">File transfer is used both
to update the firmware and to download data and event logs. There
are two different protocols that can be used with different security
options: <ul class="- topic/ul ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">
                     <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">File Transfer Protocol (FTP):</b>
                  </p> With FTP information
is transferred as plain text. Use SCP for increased security.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">
                     <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Secure CoPy (SCP):</b> With SCP the information transferred
is encrypted. SCP is automatically used when the SSH protocol is enabled
and configured and the FTP protocol is disabled.</p>
               </li>
            </ul>
         </p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Firewall</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">A properly configured firewall
is important part of network security. A firewall consists of a firewall
policy that contains one or more rules. The configuration options
for the rules are:<ul class="- topic/ul ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Priority: Set the priority of the rule. If two rules have a
conflict the highest priority rule will decide. 1 is the highest priority
and 250 the lowest.</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">IP/any: Select if the rule should apply to any IP address,
a single IP address, a subnet address or a range of IP addresses.</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Port: Specify what ports the rule should apply to.</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Protocol: Specify what protocols the rule applies to.</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Action: Defines if the firewall should allow or discard any
packet that matches the rule.</p>
               </li>
            </ul>When a firewall is active, each time a rule is applied to a packet
(both blocked and allowed) it will be logged as an event. It is possible
to view a log of the 50 most recent events.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">If the firewall
is used as an white list it is recommended to add a rule to block
all other: <codeph class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">250 Dest any / Source any / protocol any / discard</codeph>
         </p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">If the firewall is used as an black list it is recommended
to add a rule to allow all other: <codeph class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph ">250 Dest any / Source any
/ protocol any / allow</codeph>
         </p>
      </section>
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <title class="- topic/title ">Digital Certificates</title>
         <p class="- topic/p ">For network communication
that require higher security than password encryption it is possible
to use digital certificates. This option is available from the web
interface and the digital certificates use the <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Secure Sockets Layer
(SSL)</b> protocol. It is possible to use either a 1024-bit key or
a 2048-bit key. There are three different methods for creating your
digital certificate:<ul class="- topic/ul ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Method 1: Auto-generate a default certificate from the NMC.</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Method 2: Use the APC Security Wizard to create a certificate
authority and a server certificate.</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Method 3: Use the APC Security Wizard to create a certificate-signing
request that needs to be signed by the root certificate of an external
(or your own) certificate authority and to create a server certificate.</p>
               </li>
            </ul>
         </p>
      </section>
   </conbody>
</concept>
