<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1CB8BB1-BB01-11F0-1663-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Process Requirements</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-01T15:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-01T15:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="operations-teams,maintenance-personnel,industrial-engineers,plant-management,safety-and-compliance-officers"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-ehs-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>process-control-system</indexterm>
            <indexterm>sop-library</indexterm>
            <indexterm>permit-to-work-system</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-scheduler</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>operational-process-requirements</indexterm>
            <indexterm>standard-operating-procedures</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lockout-tagout</indexterm>
            <indexterm>preventive-maintenance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>risk-assessment-procedure</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>production-line-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hot-end</indexterm>
            <indexterm>cold-end</indexterm>
            <indexterm>glass-annealing</indexterm>
            <indexterm>fleet-and-material-handling</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="process requirements"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="operational and maintenance process requirements including permits procedures and controls"/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="sop; permit to work; checklist; maintenance schedule; tools and equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:ehs;usecase:process-control-and-sops;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="sop,permit-to-work,preventive-maintenance,lockout-tagout"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="define mandatory process controls and requirements to ensure safe operations"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">The following actions are required to ensure that the risks and hazards associated with Hot End operations are appropriately controlled:</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">General Hot End requirements</b>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Adherence to the required Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Regular housekeeping inspection and monitoring programs are in place.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Risk assessments and job safety analysis have been completed.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Furnace Area</b>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure that procedures are in place to control the risk of accessing the regenerator and melter crowns.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure that procedures are in place to control the risks associated with work on fuel train/gas train (fuel supply lines and regulators).</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure that procedures are in place to control risks associated with work on electrical boost equipment.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure that procedures are in place for activities that involve maintenance and change of refractory parts (i.e. Orifice Bowl).</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Entry procedures and permits are in place for access and egress from the furnace melting chamber or regenerator that is above ambient air temperature.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Forming Area</b>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Required safety equipment identified in relevant procedures are in place and in use.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The machine is equipped with Blank Side Barriers or Anti-deflection bracket
                     covers.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All forming machines should be fitted with sprinkler systems consistent with Space Property Protection Manual – Forming Machine Fire Protection.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">A formal machine cleaning program is in place.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">During maintenance activity, Lock Out/Tag Out procedures are implemented for all areas of the machine.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Sectional work takes place using procedures including isolation of adjacent sections as appropriate</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure that procedures are in place so that the machine can be stopped in the event of an emergency.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Job change safety procedures must be in place and specify safety requirements.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Procedures must be in place for safe clearing of machine jam-ups</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Suitable lifting equipment must be in place around the machine to reduce manual handling risks.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Suitable PPE must be worn in the Hot End according to local risk assessments and procedures.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">A heat stress management processes should be in place for all workers in the Hot End.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
