<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1D14B6D-BB01-11F0-2066-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Process Requirements</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T13:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T13:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="plant management,safety and compliance officers,operations team,maintenance staff"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-ehs-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>process-requirements-module</indexterm>
            <indexterm>checklist-engine</indexterm>
            <indexterm>workflow-orchestrator</indexterm>
            <indexterm>inspection-app</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>process-requirements</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operational-checklists</indexterm>
            <indexterm>permit-to-work</indexterm>
            <indexterm>procedural-compliance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-procedures</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>hot-work-permits</indexterm>
            <indexterm>confined-space-entry</indexterm>
            <indexterm>material-handling</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-shutdowns</indexterm>
            <indexterm>production-safety</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Process Requirements"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Specifies mandatory process requirements and controls for safe plant operations and maintenance activities."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="permit-to-work;inspection-checklist;maintenance-procedure;toolbox-talk;job-plan"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:heavy-machinery-and-industrial-equipment;usecase:process-controls;industry:glass-manufacturing-heavy-machinery-and-industrial-equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="process-requirements,permits,maintenance,controls"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="define-operational-and-maintenance-controls"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Formal machines, plant and equipment guarding processes and procedures must be established to prevent contact with plant and equipment hazard sources, which includes exposure to; mechanical motion, electricity, heat and chemicals.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Formally identify hazards and risks associated with the erection, installation, commissioning, operation, inspection, maintenance, repair, service and cleaning of any new and existing machine for use in the workplace.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Formally assess the risks (likelihood versus consequence) associated with the identified hazards. Typical hazards that should be assessed include; trapping, entanglement, shearing, cutting, impact, crushing, stabbing, puncturing, friction, abrasion, temperature, electrocution and ejection.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Consider the hierarchy of control when developing controls.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure that the appropriate type of guarding is used. The range of guards includes, but is not limited to, permanently fixed physical barriers, interlocked and presence-sensing systems.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Guards, paneling, or safety interlocks must not be tampered with or removed without first isolating energy sources to equipment. </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">The guard shall be such that it does not facilitate or cause an accident in itself.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Existing equipment must be systematically assessed based on: current level of risk, hazard, near miss and incident data and local regulatory requirements.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Upon installation, guards and other safety controls must be regularly inspected and maintained. At a minimum annual inspections must be undertaken and documented, and the documentation must be retained.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">If the design of the guarding includes an emergency stop, the stop control must be clearly marked in local language, durable, accessible, colour coded and cannot be adversely affected by electrical malfunction.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Emergency stops shall not to be used as a substitute to isolation.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">The unauthorised removal of guarding from plant or equipment or failure to restore guarding upon completion of work is a direct contravention of EHS Golden Rule 6.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Where it is not practicable to provide guarding and people are required to operate or pass close to dangerous moving parts, a formal risk assessment and safe system of work must be documented and effectively implemented to reduce risks.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Competency based training and instruction must be provided as necessary for employees, managers, supervisors, machine operators, maintenance personnel and anyone else interacting with plant and equipment in a manner that is readily understood.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Competency based training should include; machine hazards, machines guarding and how they provide protection, how to use the guards and when guards can be removed and by whom.</li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
