<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="d13aAjan752"
         xml:lang="en"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Viewing Awards</title>
   <prolog class="- topic/prolog ">
      <author class="- topic/author ">Metapercept</author>
      <critdates class="- topic/critdates ">
         <created date="2025-11-21+05:30" class="- topic/created "/>
         <revised modified="2025-05-05" class="- topic/revised "/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata class="- topic/metadata ">
         <audience type="role"
                   platform="web"
                   product="metR-Power-Source_To_Pay_User_Guide_Final"
                   class="- topic/audience "/>
         <keywords class="- topic/keywords ">
            <keyword class="- topic/keyword "/>
            <indexterm class="- topic/indexterm "/>
            <indexterm class="- topic/indexterm "/>
         </keywords>
         <othermeta name="title" content="" class="- topic/othermeta "/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="" class="- topic/othermeta "/>
      </metadata>
      <resourceid appid=""
                  appname=""
                  id=""
                  ux-source-priority="topic-and-map"
                  class="- topic/resourceid "/>
   </prolog>
   <conbody>
      <p class="- topic/p ">
         <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Award </b>is selecting the winner of a sourcing event. Considering the evaluation, the supplier who has the best weighted score is selected and awarded with the deal. It is possible that more than one award winner exists. </p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">You will receive a notification whether you have won or lost the sourcing event. The Award tab is visible to the suppliers who have won the sourcing event. You can access the details of your sourcing event that you have won from the Award tab on supplier portal. You can also view the details like Product Group, Sub-Group, Items, Price Modifiers by clicking the View More button on Award tab. If you have lost the sourcing event, the Award tab will be grayed. </p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">In our example, Rex Klenney of Roxop Cleaners is the winner of the Disinfecting Wipes sourcing event. Hence, he can view the details of the award from <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Award </b>tab.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
