<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="concept-522"
         xml:lang="en-us"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Campaign Reports</title>
   <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc "/>
   <prolog>
      <author>Yashshree</author>
      <critdates class="- topic/critdates ">
         <created date="2025-12-09+05:30" class="- topic/created "/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-09" class="- topic/revised "/>
      </critdates>  
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="community-engagement-officers,project-managers,program-administrators,public-information-coordinators,external-stakeholders,contractors,agency-leadership"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>campaign-reports-generator</indexterm>
            <indexterm>reporting-and-export-console</indexterm>
            <indexterm>analytics-report-workspace</indexterm>
            <indexterm>scheduled-reports-manager</indexterm>
            <indexterm>report-customization-toolkit</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>multi-format-report-generation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>scheduled-report-distribution</indexterm>
            <indexterm>report-variant-comparison</indexterm>
            <indexterm>export-and-archival-workflow</indexterm>
            <indexterm>report-template-management</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>program-reporting-compliance-context</indexterm>
            <indexterm>stakeholder-reporting-and-transparency</indexterm>
            <indexterm>capital-program-documentation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>public-reporting-obligations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>project-performance-reporting</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-engage-Mind</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Campaign Reports"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Describes building, scheduling, and exporting campaign reports in multiple formats for stakeholders and compliance."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="report;campaign;export;template;schedule"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:capital-infrastructure;usecase:engage-portal-guidance;industry:capital-infrastructure"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="reporting,scheduling,export"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="user-guide:navigate-configure-manage-stakeholder-feedback"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <conbody>
      <p class="- topic/p ">You can generate various campaign reports that illustrate various information views. These reports enable you to generate and download reports specific to a campaign and projects in a campaign. You can also download a copy of the report and print a report.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">For information on generating, downloading, and printing a
report, refer to <xref href="Generating_Reports/Generating_Reports.dita" class="- topic/xref ">Generating Reports</xref>.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">You can generate the following reports:<ul class="- topic/ul ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Campaign Report<ul class="- topic/ul ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Campaign Overview - This report helps the user to fetch campaign level information such as commenting period, number of projects, endorsement percentage, and overall sentiment of the campaign. It lists also all the projects in the campaign, number of received comments, average rating, endorsement percentage, and sentiment of each project.</li>
               </ul>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Projects Report<ul class="- topic/ul ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Positive Sentiment - This report filters out details such as number of comments, average rating, and endorsement percentage of all the projects in the campaign having overall positive sentiments from the users. The report contains campaign details along with projects list having positive sentiments.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Negative Sentiment - This report filters out details such as number of comments, average rating, and endorsement percentage of all the projects in the campaign having overall negative sentiments from the users. The report contains campaign details along with projects list having negative sentiments.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Neutral Sentiment - This report filters out details such as number of comments, average rating, and endorsement percentage of all the projects in the campaign having neutral sentiments from the users. The report contains campaign details along with projects list having neutral sentiments.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">High Rated (&gt;3.5) - This report filters out details such as number of comments, average rating, and endorsement percentage of all the projects in the campaign having average rating more than 3.5 from the users. The report contains campaign details along with the list of filtered projects.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Low Rated (&lt;3.5) - This report filters out details such as number of comments, average rating, and endorsement percentage of all the projects in the campaign having average rating less than 3.5 from the users. The report contains campaign details along with the list of filtered projects.</li>
               </ul>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Comments  Report<ul class="- topic/ul ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Project Comments - This report lists all the comments received from the general public user for each project. All the comments are reported under the project along with user information, comments sentiment, and rating.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">
                     <p class="- topic/p ">Category wise comments - This report lists all the comments by category received from the general public user for each project. All the comments are segregated as per the categories defined along with user information, comments sentiment, and rating.</p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Custom  Report<ul class="- topic/ul ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Project Comments (You can select a specific
project to view the comments.) - This report enables the user to select a particular project and fetch all user comments received for that project. All the comments are reported under the project along with user information, comments sentiment, and rating.</li>
               </ul>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
