<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Instructions</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-11-11+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-11+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="technician,maintenance,operations,engineer"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product -->
            <indexterm>metR-fes-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>electronic-chute-control-ii</indexterm>
            <indexterm>servo-actuator</indexterm>
            <indexterm>encoder</indexterm>
            <indexterm>proportional-valve</indexterm>
            <indexterm>io-link-sensor</indexterm>
            <!-- Process -->
            <indexterm>stepwise-instructions</indexterm>
            <indexterm>power-up-sequence</indexterm>
            <indexterm>encoder-zeroing</indexterm>
            <indexterm>pid-parameter-entry</indexterm>
            <indexterm>io-link-commission</indexterm>
            <indexterm>canopen-node-config</indexterm>
            <indexterm>wiring-verification</indexterm>
            <indexterm>manual-override</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hmi-commands</indexterm>
            <indexterm>safe-mode-init</indexterm>
            <!-- Context -->
            <indexterm>production-ops</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operator-guidance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-window</indexterm>
            <indexterm>shift-coordination</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-FES-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Instructions — Electronic Chute Control II"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Operational and commissioning instructions for Electronic Chute Control II: power-up, encoder zeroing, PID parameter entry, IO-Link and CANopen commissioning, wiring and HMI steps."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="encoder-zero;PID-params;CANopen-node;IO-Link-device;HMI"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:glass-manufacturing;usecase:instructions-chute-ii;industry:glass-manufacturing"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="instructions,chute-ii,encoder,pid,commissioning,canopen,iolink"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="Provide commissioning and operational instructions for Electronic Chute Control II"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Before starting the work instruction activity, perform the following steps:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Do not begin these tasks without confirmation that personnel directly involved have completed the required training associated with the work instruction activity and have reviewed this document.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Gather necessary tools and equipment as identified below in the Equipment Section.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Wear and use additional Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and safety equipment required for this specific work instruction</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Obey all applicable safety requirements and procedures</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Follow all Lockout/Tagout procedures when work instruction activity requires isolating energy in the designated area. Verify energy is isolated before starting work.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">To ensure the functionality of the chute control system, perform the following steps: <note class="- topic/note ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">These steps should be performed during preventative maintenance, shutdowns, job
                     changes, and/or production down time.</p>
               </note>
               <p class="- topic/p ">Refer to drawings OIS-03002, OIS-03394, OIS-03429, and
                  SCS-5-40.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p ">Setup parameters for the servo controller, and a maintenance
                  record, have been provided in the <xref href="FES-03-701_appendix_b.dita" class="- topic/xref ">Appendix</xref> to aid in logging operating parameters and work performed on
                  the pneumatic chute control system.</p>
               <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Verify that the chute air supply is high pressure, dry (instrument) air. <note class="- topic/note ">
                        <p class="- topic/p ">On old installation drawings, 3.4 bar (50 psi) was specified. The new
                           standard is to supply 6.9 bar (100 psi) for chute air. </p>
                     </note>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Verify that the air pressure switch tubing is connected before the check valve
                     and receiver tank. (Reference the “L-P” airline on the above mentioned
                     drawings.) <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Calibrate and set the pressure switch to 3.1 bar (45 psi). </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Adjust the regulator to operate at 3.8 to 4.1 Bar (55 to 60 psi).</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Verify that the air hoses are not cut or damaged. <note class="- topic/note ">
                        <p class="- topic/p ">Use braided stainless steel supply hoses, not rubber hoses.</p>
                     </note>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Repair or replace the following solenoid valves, pressure switches, and
                     proximity switches once per year. The quantity and part number for each
                     component are shown below. <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">1 shear lockout solenoid valve 115 VAC (HF-3556)</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">4 pressure switches 24 VDC (chute, machine “A”, machine “B”, plunger
                           cool) (OIS-204-665)</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">1 pilot air pressure switch 24 VDC (SCS-3-329)</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">1 gob reject solenoid valve 24 VDC (OIS-204-3159)</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">1 guide funnel solenoid valve 24 VDC (OIS-204-3108)</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">1 chute solenoid valve 24 VDC (OIS-204-3108)</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">1 gob accelerator solenoid valve 24 VDC (OIS-204-3108)</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">1 upper funnel solenoid valve 24 VDC (OIS-204-3108)</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">1 chute water flow solenoid valve 24 VDC (OIS-204-3178)</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">3 proximity switches 24 VDC (OIS-204-3133)</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">On the MICC 5480, MICC Laser, Flexdrive II, and Flexdrive III, there are two
                     ammeter relays: one for the feeder, and one for the gob distributor. There is a
                     high current trip, and a low current trip. <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Approximate guidelines for the feeder: The high current setpoint should
                           be at 3 amps above the operating current, and the low current setpoint
                           should be at 3 amps below the operating current.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Approximate guidelines for the gob distributor: The high current
                           setpoint should be at 2 amps above the operating current, and the low
                           current setpoint should be at 2 amps below the operating current.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">These setpoints can be adjusted to be closer to, or farther from, the
                           operating current depending on the mechanical cam and the motor current
                           variation.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The operating current should be observed and the setpoints set, based on
                           the amount of fluctuation in the current.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Adjustments may be required due to shear cam changes during job
                           changes.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">If Servo Needles, Servo Shears, and/or Servo Gob Distributor are installed,
                     there is a chute enable relay on the SDFL Interface board (SCS-0314). This
                     relay enables the chute to go up if the Needles, Shears, or Gob Distributor
                     stop for any reason. <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">There is also a pressure switch (OIS-204-665) used to monitor the air
                           supplied to the lockout solenoid valve. Calibrate test this switch, and
                           then set it at 3.1 bar (45 psi).</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">To test the chute control system, perform the following steps:
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Lower the tube down to shut off the glass flow.  Then plug the orifice to ensure that glass will not flow.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Start the feeder, shears, and gob distributor.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure that setup/operating parameters are correct. Refer to the ECCSII manual,
                     section 4.</li>
                  <li id="li_l22_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/li ">Place the chute control system in operating mode. To operate the
                     chute control system in operating mode, perform the following sequence <ol id="ol_m22_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Bring the funnels into the glass.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Bring the reject cylinder into the glass.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Bring the chute down.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Bring the gob accelerator into the glass (if applicable).</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Stop the feeder. When the feeder stops, the gob accelerator will retract, the chute will come up, the reject cylinder will retract, and the guide funnels will retract.
            <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Restart the feeder, shears, and gob distributor.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Repeat step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_l22_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">4</xref> above, then go to step
                              <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_vgq_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">6</xref> below</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li id="li_vgq_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/li ">Stop the shears. When the shears stop, the gob accelerator will
                     retract, the chute will come up, the reject cylinder will retract, and the
                     guide funnels will retract. <ol id="ol_wgq_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Restart the shears.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Repeat step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_l22_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">4</xref> above, then go
                           to step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_pf5_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">7</xref> below</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li id="li_pf5_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/li ">With the gob distributor run/setup switch in the run position,
                     stop the gob distributor. When the gob distributor stops, the gob accelerator
                     will retract, the chute will come up, the reject cylinder will retract, and the
                     guide funnels will retract <ol id="ol_rf5_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Repeat step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_l22_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">4</xref> above, then go
                           to step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_fky_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">8</xref> below</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li id="li_fky_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/li ">With the gob distributor run/setup switch in the setup position,
                     start the gob distributor. Stop the gob distributor. When it stops the chute
                     should not come up. Remember to put the switch back in the run position when
                     loading glass. <ol id="ol_gky_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Restart the gob distributor.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Repeat step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_l22_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">4</xref> above, then go
                           to step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_hbc_pcg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">9</xref> below</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li id="li_hbc_pcg_rzb" class="- topic/li ">Push the <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">chute-up</uicontrol> button on the main
                     panel. This will cause the gob accelerator to retract, the chute to come up,
                     and the funnels and reject cylinders to retract. <ol id="ol_ibc_pcg_rzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Repeat step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_l22_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">4</xref> above, then go
                           to step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_fmh_pcg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">10</xref> below.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li id="li_fmh_pcg_rzb" class="- topic/li ">Push the button on the main panel that retracts the reject
                     cylinder out of glass. This will cause the gob accelerator to retract, the
                     chute to come up, the reject cylinder to retract, and the guide funnels to
                     retract. <ol id="ol_gmh_pcg_rzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Repeat step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_l22_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">4</xref> above, then go
                           to step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_r24_pcg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">11</xref> below.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li id="li_r24_pcg_rzb" class="- topic/li ">Push the emergency <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">chute-up</uicontrol> button on the
                     main panel. This will cause the gob accelerator to retract, the chute to come
                     up, the reject cylinder to retract, and the guide funnels to retract <ol id="ol_s24_pcg_rzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Repeat step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_l22_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">4</xref> above, then go
                           to step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_xjs_pcg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">12</xref> below.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li id="li_xjs_pcg_rzb" class="- topic/li ">Push the button on the remote panel that retracts the reject
                     cylinder out of glass. The gob accelerator will retract, the chute will come
                     up, the reject cylinder will retract, and the funnels will retract. <ol id="ol_yjs_pcg_rzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Repeat step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_l22_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">4</xref> above, then go
                           to step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_tpw_pcg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">13</xref> below.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li id="li_tpw_pcg_rzb" class="- topic/li ">Push the <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">chute-up</uicontrol> button on the remote
                     panel. The gob accelerator will retract, the chute will come up, and the funnel
                     and reject cylinders will retract. <ol id="ol_upw_pcg_rzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Repeat step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_l22_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">4</xref> above, then go
                           to step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_lk1_qcg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">14</xref> below.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li id="li_lk1_qcg_rzb" class="- topic/li ">Push the emergency chute-up <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">stand-alone</uicontrol>
                     button. This will cause the gob accelerator to retract, the chute will come up,
                     the reject cylinder will retract, and the guide funnels will retract. <ol id="ol_mk1_qcg_rzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Repeat step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_l22_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">4</xref> above, then go
                           to step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_hxh_qcg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">15</xref> below.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li id="li_hxh_qcg_rzb" class="- topic/li ">Individually test and calibrate the chute air, machine “A” air,
                     machine “B” air, plunger cooling, and pilot air pressure switches. <ol id="ol_ixh_qcg_rzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Rotate the dial to a setpoint higher than the operating pressure.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">When the set point on the dial goes above the operating pressure, the
                           gob accelerator will retract, the chute will come up, the reject cylinder
                           will retract, and the guide funnels will retract.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">At the point that the pressure switch trips, pull off the dial and set
                           it at the proper position determined by the chute air pressure
                           gauge.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Then adjust the dial to be 0.34-0.69 bar (5-10 psi) below the operating
                           pressure. <note id="note_jxh_qcg_rzb" class="- topic/note ">
                              <p class="- topic/p ">For machines that change processes, the pressure switches must be
                                 set for the proper pressure.</p>
                           </note>
                           <note id="note_kxh_qcg_rzb" class="- topic/note ">
                              <p class="- topic/p ">To save production time, pre-calibrate the spare pressure switches
                                 before use. This can be done by using a calibrated air source.</p>
                           </note>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Repeat step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_l22_4cg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">4</xref> above, then go
                           to step <xref href="#r2148D86-BB02-11F0-1121-09173F13E4C5/li_mt5_rcg_rzb" class="- topic/xref ">16</xref> below.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li id="li_mt5_rcg_rzb" class="- topic/li ">Test the water flow solenoid (if present) by moving the chute to
                     the up position. Water flow should automatically increase. <ol id="ol_nt5_rcg_rzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Next, move the chute down and press the <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">glass</uicontrol>
                           switch to reject gobs.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">If the number for the gob count is greater than the parameter setpoint
                           in the servo system, the water flow will increase <ol id="ol_ot5_rcg_rzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li "> The parameter is adjustable on the Servo Display Station. </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">For example, if the parameter for number of rejects in one machine
                                 cycle before high water flow is set at two, then, when two sections
                                 are rejected in one machine cycle, the water flow should
                                 increase.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">For the high water flow to reduce to low water flow, if the reject count
                           is below the Rejects Before High Flow parameter, the count begins for the
                           Cycles Before Low Flow parameter.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The water flow will automatically decrease when the reject count is
                           below the Rejects Before High Flow parameter for the specified number of
                           cycles, which ranges from 1 to 8 machine cycles.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Refer to the Electronic Chute Control II manual, section 4.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Adjust the speed screws, located on the solenoid valves (which are used for regulating how quickly the funnel cylinder, reject cylinder, gob accelerator cylinder, and chute cylinder move), to a proper setting.
            <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The mechanisms should extend and retract fast enough to provide adequate safety conditions, yet not so fast so that the mechanisms are slamming. Slamming causes the cylinders to stick in an unsafe condition.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Refer to Appendix <xref href="FES-03-701_appendix_a.dita" class="- topic/xref ">A</xref> for the setup
                     parameter information for the servo controller.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Refer to Appendix <xref href="FES-03-701_appendix_b.dita" class="- topic/xref ">B</xref> for s a setup and
                     maintenance record for the plant engineer and/or machine repair supervisor to
                     insure that proper testing, repair, and operation of the chute control are
                     completed for each machine.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Upon completion of tasks, perform the following steps:
        <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">After the designated work area is confirmed clear and personnel are aware of the pending restart, follow all Lockout/Tagout procedures to restart energy supplied to the designated area. Verify energy is active.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Notify appropriate personnel that the work instruction activity has been completed.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Record and report findings and results.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Follow appropriate instructions for notification of findings and results relating to specifications, targets and/or reaction limits.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
