<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="c274F293-BDF2-11F0-2393-09173F13E4C5"
         xml:lang="en"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">About Power eSignature Integration with Power Platform</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Pallavi</author>
      
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-11-26T17:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-26T17:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      
      <metadata>
         <!-- Audience -->
         <audience 
            type="role"
            otherprops="production,maintenance,quality,safety,engineering,management"/>
         
         
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product Layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-cesign-power</indexterm>
            <indexterm>esignature-integration</indexterm>
            <indexterm>power-platform</indexterm>
            <indexterm>third-party-esignature</indexterm>
            <indexterm>power-sign</indexterm>
            <indexterm>adobe-sign</indexterm>
            <indexterm>docusign</indexterm>
            <indexterm>onespan-sign</indexterm>
            <indexterm>sertifi</indexterm>
            <indexterm>wet-signature</indexterm>
            
            <!-- Process Layer -->
            <indexterm>document-signing-process</indexterm>
            <indexterm>approval-workflow</indexterm>
            <indexterm>workflow-automation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>send-for-esignature</indexterm>
            <indexterm>contract-approval</indexterm>
            <indexterm>document-routing</indexterm>
            <indexterm>status-update-automation</indexterm>
            
            <!-- Context Layer -->
            <indexterm>contract-management</indexterm>
            <indexterm>compliance-audit</indexterm>
            <indexterm>secure-document-handling</indexterm>
            <indexterm>identity-verification</indexterm>
            <indexterm>integration-capabilities</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         
         <!-- Product Info -->
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-Cesign-Power</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         
         <othermeta name="title" content="About Power eSignature Integration with Power Platform"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Overview of the Power eSignature integration capabilities that enable secure, automated, multi-provider electronic signing for contract-related documents."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta 
            name="entities" 
            content="esignature;adobe-sign;docusign;onespan;contract-approval;workflow;power-sign;document-routing"
         />
         
         <othermeta 
            name="taxonomy" 
            content="domain:e-signature;usecase:contract-approval;industry:enterprise-software"
         />
         
        
         <othermeta 
            name="tags" 
            content="esignature,contract-management,power-platform,approval-workflow,document-signing"
         />
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <conbody>
      <p class="- topic/p ">An eSignature or electronic signature is an efficient and legal way to get electronic documents signed quickly. Power eSignature integration enables you to electronically sign any type of document associated with contracts. It offers the ability to integrate third party eSignature services with Power Platform. You can connect and setup Power Sign, Adobe Sign, DocuSign, OneSpan Sign, Sertifi, and  wet signature to send documents for eSignature. </p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Power eSignature integration provides a streamlined point-and-click way for sending documents for eSignature when it comes to acquire final approvals for a contract. Within the contract, the send for eSignature feature allows you to significantly shorten approval cycles by quickly compiling the necessary documents, selecting the right contacts from your org and easily sending personalized emails. As documents are routed, Power eSignature integration ensures that documents adhere to the appropriate workflows. When documents are signed by all the signers, the contract status is automatically updated inside your org, and final signed documents are attached to the contract. With Power eSignature integration, you have a fully secure, auditable, and trackable view of who has approved your documents for contracts.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
