<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1CD06ED-BB01-11F0-1011-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Process Requirements</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T10:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T10:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="operations teams,environmental managers,safety officers,maintenance personnel"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-ehs-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>process-controls</indexterm>
            <indexterm>handling-procedures</indexterm>
            <indexterm>storage-guidelines</indexterm>
            <indexterm>waste-disposal-systems</indexterm>
            <!-- process layer -->
            <indexterm>process-requirements</indexterm>
            <indexterm>handling-procedures</indexterm>
            <indexterm>spill-response</indexterm>
            <indexterm>labelling-and-msds</indexterm>
            <indexterm>inspection-and-monitoring</indexterm>
            <!-- context layer -->
            <indexterm>chemical-handling</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>environmental-controls</indexterm>
            <indexterm>regulatory-compliance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hazmat-storage-areas</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Process Requirements"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Specifies process requirements for safe handling, storage, labelling, monitoring and disposal of hazardous materials."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="msds sheets;label systems;storage cabinets;spill kits;monitoring sensors"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:process safety;usecase:hazmat process requirements;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="process requirements,handling,storage,labelling,monitoring"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="define procedural requirements for hazmat handling and storage"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Conduct an assessment to determine what hazardous materials need to be stored onsite, and the maximum quantity of those materials.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Obtain Safety Data Sheets (SDS) from manufacturer, importer or supplier and ensure that SDS’s are not older than four years, and are accessible to employees, contractors, and emergency services.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Contractors shall supply SDS’s for any hazardous materials they bring onsite.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Conduct formal hazardous materials risk assessments and document the controls required to manage the exposure prior to new materials being introduced onsite.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">No new chemical labeled with pictogram GHS08 (“health hazard”) shall be introduced without the written agreement from an industrial hygienist or EHS manager.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The documented risk assessments shall be reviewed every four (4) years, or sooner in case of relevant changes.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Controls implemented shall be consistent with the hierarchy of control, and all controls shall be maintained and tested to ensure that they effectively manage the the associated hazards and risks.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Maintain a register/database of hazardous materials and ensure that this information is
               accessible to employees, contractors, and emergency services.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure that hazardous substances and dangerous goods are securely stored, and that they are labeled, ventilated, and separated from incompatable materials. This shall be done in accordance with local regulatory requirements.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Containers and pipework used to carry and/or transport chemicals shall be suitable and appropriately labeled.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Locate vessels, containers, bulk stores, and process areas containing hazardous materials within areas of adequate design and size to safety contain spills and allow for effective response to spills.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Implement a management plan to minimize the risk to human health and the environment due to a release/spill of hazardous materials.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Suitable emergency plan provisions shall be in place for hazardous materials.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Hazardous waste materials/substances shall be stored and disposed of in accordance with local laws and regulations, and by a licensed disposal company or contractor.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Personnel involved in the accumulation, storage, handling, use, and disposal of hazardous substances shall be adequately trained, supervised, and instructed.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Employees shall be provided with, and wear, suitable PPE appropriate to the task.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Formal schedules shall be developed for industrial hygiene and occupational health monitoring based on risk assessments.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Exposure monitoring shall be conducted in accordance with local legislative requirements.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
