<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         xml:lang="en-us"
         id="c421209C-CAB4-11F0-8200-09173F13E4C5"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Components and Subsystems</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Yashshree</author>
      <critdates class="- topic/critdates ">
         <created date="2025-11-24+05:30" class="- topic/created "/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-24" class="- topic/revised "/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="machine operators, maintenance personnel, industrial engineers, reliability engineers, safety and compliance officers, management"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-sbs-soul</indexterm>
            <indexterm>screw-compressor</indexterm>
            <indexterm>oil-mist-remover-subsystem</indexterm>
            <indexterm>inter-cooler</indexterm>
            <indexterm>separator-element</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>component-inspection</indexterm>
            <indexterm>subsystem-maintenance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>component-replacement</indexterm>
            <indexterm>assembly-check</indexterm>
            <indexterm>functional-test</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>glass-manufacturing</indexterm>
            <indexterm>industrial-engineering</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-floor</indexterm>
            <indexterm>cold-end-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-department</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-SBS-Soul</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Components and Subsystems"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Catalogues compressor components and subsystems such as air-end, inter-cooler, separators and oil-mist removal units."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="air-end;inter-cooler;separator-element;oil-mist-remover-subsystem;filters"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:industrial-engineering;usecase:components-and-subsystems;industry:glass-manufacturing"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="components,subsystems,compressor"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="components-and-subsystems"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <conbody>
      <p class="- topic/p ">
         <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Air-End:</b> A pair of rotor assemblies rotates while the timing gear keeps a precise
            clearance between the male and female rotors. This non-contacting, high speed rotation
            of the rotor assemblies compresses the intake air. There is no oil injection into the
            rotor assemblies during the compression process, allowing the DSP to discharge oil free
                air.<ul id="ul_ijh_1q3_ncc" class="- topic/ul ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Rotor Assembly: The surfaces of the rotors are finished with a special
                    heat-resistant PTFE- Free coating, designed for a precise limit of clearances
                    between the male and female rotors.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Bearings: The heavier male rotors are supported by bearings that are larger in
                    diameter, so as to provide a longer service life.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Case: Oil jackets are provided on the case to absorb the heat of
                    compression.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Timing Gears: A pair of precision finished timing gears is mounted on the ends
                    of the rotor shafts to keep a precise clearance between the rotors and prevent
                    contact during rotation.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Shaft Seal: The sealing consists of two mechanisms<ul id="ul_fwy_5p3_ncc" class="- topic/ul ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Air seals prevent the compressed air from leaking out of the compression
                            chamber.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Visco-type seals prevent the oil in the gear case from entering in the
                            compression chamber.</li>
               </ul>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Compressor Drive Train (Motor):</b> The compressor employs a highly
                        efficient, 4-pole, totally enclosed, fan cooled (TEFC) motor. The motor
                        speed is increased by the speed up gears, and assist 1st and 2nd stage
                        air-ends to increase rotation level properly at rated level in the gear
                        case.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Capacity Control System:</b> When demand of compressed air is enough, the
                        suction throttle valve is closed by capacity control system and the
                        compressed air is purged into the atmosphere at the same time, for unloading
                        the DSP air compressor.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Inter-Cooler:</b> The air-cooled inter-cooler is made of aluminum. The
                        intake air is compressed up to 2.0 bar (29 psi) (and consequently generates
                        heat in this process) by the 1st stage air-end. The intercooler cools the
                        heated air to an atmospheric temperature +15℃ (27℉ ) and separates the
                        moisture from the compressed air before entering the 2nd stage air-end.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">After Cooler:</b> The air-cooled after-cooler is a corrugated fin
                        structure with aluminum slit fin. It is located downstream of the check
                        valve and cools the compressed air, coming from the 2nd stage air-end, down
                        to an atmospheric temperature +15℃ (27℉) and also separates the moisture
                        from the compressed air from the 2nd stage air-end.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Hi-Precooler:</b> The air-cooled Hi-precooler is located between the 2nd
                        stage air-end and the aftercooler, and primarily cools the hot compressed
                        air discharged by the air-end.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Check Valve:</b> The check valve is located downstream of the 2nd stage
                        air-end and prevents backflow of the discharge air.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Lubricating Subsystem:</b> The lubricating subsystem consists of the oil
                        pump, oil strainer, oil filter, air-cooled oil cooler and relief valve. The
                        oil pump circulates the oil in the gear case, oil sump, through the
                        lubrication subsystem, keeping the bearings, gears, etc. lubricated.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Air Intake Filter:</b> The air intake filter is a dry type, for easy
                        cleaning or replacement.</p>
               <p class="- topic/p ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Cooling Fan:</b> The low noise cooling fan cools the coolers, and exhausts
                        the hot air from the enclosure. It also exhausts the internal compressed air
                        that is released to the atmosphere during the unloading process.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
