<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1DA460E-BB01-11F0-1418-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T14:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T14:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="operations teams, maintenance personnel, machine operators, safety and compliance officers, ehs professionals"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-ehs-space</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>lockout-tagout furnace-burner-isolation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>permit-to-work hot-work form-PTW-HT-01</indexterm>
            <indexterm>confined-space entry cullet-silo</indexterm>
            <indexterm>prestart-checklist conveyor-drive-assembly</indexterm>
            <indexterm>furnace-refractory inspection-procedure</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>scaffold-erection checklist</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hot-end maintenance shutdown-sequence</indexterm>
            <indexterm>electrical isolation for transformer-T1</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hose-reel fire-suppression test</indexterm>
            <indexterm>shift-handover safety-brief</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Describes step by step operational procedures and safety controls for safe operation and maintenance of plant equipment."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="work-permit;lockout-tagout-devices;maintenance-tools;inspection-checklist;operation-checkpoints"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:ehs;usecase:operational-procedure;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="procedure,operational-controls,safe-work"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="provide step by step operational safety procedures"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Methods of Control<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">When a potential hazard is identified, engineering controls shall be implemented to eliminate or reduce hazards, if feasible.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">If this is not feasible, the process shall be isolated or the hazard shall be guarded.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">If other controls are not possible, PPE shall be used.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Safety Equipment<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Personal Protective Equipment (safety glasses, face shields, respirators, welding protection, safety shoes, etc.) as specified for certain jobs shall be worn by employees where their use is required.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Hazard Assessment<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Each job function shall be assessed to determine which potential hazards are likely to be present that require the use of Personal Protective Equipment. For each job that has been evaluated, Form EHS-03-001-F Job Hazard Analysis and PPE Assessment, or equivalent, shall be completed.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Work Instruction EHS-03-001 Job Hazard Analysis and PPE Assessment may be used to properly enter information into EHS-03-001-F Job Hazard Analysis and PPE Assessment.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">PPE Selection<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Eye and Face Protection<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The facility shall require that affected employees use appropriate eye or face protection when exposed to eye or face hazards from flying particles, molten metal, liquid chemicals, acids, caustic liquids, chemical gases or vapors, or potentially dangerous light radiation.
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The use of contact lenses should be avoided where the likelihood exists for harmful contact with chemicals.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Where applicable, all safety glasses, goggles, and face shields shall meet the test requirements referenced in Reference Material EHS-07-011 Global PPE Matrix, or equivalent.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Foot Protection <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The facility shall require that affected employees use proper footwear when working in areas where there is a danger of foot injuries due to falling or rolling objects or objects piercing the sole, or where such employee’s feet are exposed to electrical hazards.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Hand Protection<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The facility shall require that affected employees use appropriate gloves when employees’ hands are exposed to potential hazards such as those from skin absorption of harmful substances, severe cuts or lacerations, severe abrasions, punctures, chemical burns, thermal burns, and harmful temperature extremes.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The facility shall base the selection of the appropriate glove on an evaluation of the performance characteristics of the glove relative to the task(s) to be performed, conditions present, duration of use, and hazards and potential hazards identified.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Head Protection <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The facility shall require that affected employees wear a protective helmet when working in areas where there is a potential for injury to the head from falling objects or from the employee bumping his/her head.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Where applicable, all hard hats or bump caps shall meet the test requirements of local legislation.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Protective Clothing <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The facility shall require that each affected employee use appropriate protective clothing when required.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Protective clothing shall be selected giving consideration to the potential hazard(s) for which it is worn.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">General Safety Practices<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Safety warning signs, such as “Eye Protection Required,” shall be installed at all entrances where that particular PPE is required and adhered to.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Only PPE equipment authorized by the supervisor shall be used.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Long hair (shoulder length) must be safely controlled when working around moving equipment, chemicals, and open flames.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Loose clothing and/or jewelry shall not be worn around moving equipment.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Personal headsets and/or earphone-style radios shall not be worn or used in the manufacturing area.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Wear all necessary PPE according to the requirements of the work area or specific operation.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Open-toed shoes, sandals, and high heels represent inappropriate footwear in manufacturing areas and are prohibited.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Documentation and Recordkeeping<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The following records shall be maintained:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Training records.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Hazard assessment records.
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Use Form EHS-03-001-F Job Hazard Analysis and PPE Assessment, or
                                 equivalent, to document the completion of hazard assessments for
                                 PPE usage.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Additional forms should be completed if available Personal Protective Equipment or facility conditions change.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
