<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1D9810F-BB01-11F0-1008-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T14:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T14:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="machine operators, maintenance personnel, fleet supervisors, industrial engineers, safety and compliance officers"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>fleet-management-system maintenance-scheduler</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>prestart-inspection checklist-forklift</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operator-checklist Hyster H2-5 example</indexterm>
            <indexterm>defect-reporting work-order creation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>refuelling-procedure diesel-service-vehicle</indexterm>
            <indexterm>battery-charging safe-procedure battery-charger-KBE24</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>loading-dock load-securing</indexterm>
            <indexterm>tyre-pressure maintenance 60psi</indexterm>
            <indexterm>parking-and-storage designated-bays</indexterm>
            <indexterm>service-interval 250-hour</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Provides step by step guidance for prestart inspections, safe operation and maintenance of mobile equipment used in the plant."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="operator-checklist;inspection-items;service-record;defect-log;maintenance-plan"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:ehs;usecase:equipment-operation-procedure;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="procedure,inspection,maintenance"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="guide operators and maintenance on safe equipment operation"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Competency Test<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Operators shall take the hands-on competency test prior to operation of any mobile equipment using EHS-02-109-F 002 Aerial and Scissor Lift Hands on Competency Test, EHS-02-109-F 004 Forklift Hands-On Competency Test, or EHS-02-109-006 Skid Steer Loader Competency Test.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Annually, preferably during training on mobile equipment.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">When an operator is involved in an accident that can cause damage to property, personal injury, or injury of another employee.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">At the discretion of the supervisor, manager, or shift lead if they feel an
                           individual is not operating the equipment safely.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Pre-Use Inspection of Mobile Equipment <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Prior to the operation of any mobile equipment, a Pre-Use Inspection Form shall be completed. This applies at the beginning of every work period that the equipment will be used, and whenever a new equipment operator takes control of the mobile equipment. <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">EHS-02-109-F 001 Aerial and Scissor List Pre-Use Inspection Checklist or
                                                  equivalent.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">EHS-02-109-F 003 Forklift Pre-Use Inspection
                                                  Checklist or equivalent.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">EHS-02-109-F 005 Skid Steer Loader Pre-Use
                                                  Inspection Checklist or equivalent.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Any safety defects (e.g., hydraulic fluid leaks, defective brakes, etc.) shall be reported for immediate repair to a supervisor. They shall be locked and tagged, and taken out of service if a defect is found. </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Fueling Mobile Equipment<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Fueling of mobile equipment shall be done in areas with proper ventilation.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Fuel tanks shall not be filled while the engine is running and fuel tank caps shall be replaced before restarting the engine.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Avoid apillage. In the event of spillage of oil or fuel shall be absorbed using proper spill kits, the affected area carefully washed.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Open flames shall not be used when checking electrolyte levels in storage
                     batteries, or gasoline levels in fuel tanks.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Propane refueling/refilling shall be conducted in
                     accordance with the Space-NA Regional Safe Work Practice, SWP No. 303, Forklift
                     and other Propane Refueling/Refilling Procedure.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Changing and Charging Mobile Equipment Batteries<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Battery charging installations shall be located in areas in well ventilated areas and shall be set up in a manner to prevent the escape of fumes, gases, and electrolyte spray. </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Floors shall be protected from acid accumulation. </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Precautions shall be taken to prevent open flames, sparks, or electric arcs in battery charging areas. </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Facilities shall have eye wash stations located in close proximity according to local regulations.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Facilities shall provide for: <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Flushing and neutralizing spilled electrolyte,</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Fire protection,</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Protection of charging apparatus from damage by trucks,</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Adequate ventilation for dispersal of fumes from gassing batteries.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Employees charging and changing batteries shall be authorized to do the work,
                     trained in the proper handling, and required to wear protective clothing,
                     including face shields, long sleeves, rubber boots, aprons, and gloves.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Maintenance of Mobile Equipment<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Any mobile equipment not in safe operating condition shall be removed from service. Authorized personnel shall make all repairs. </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Repairs to the fuel and ignition systems of mobile equipment that involve fire hazards shall be conducted only in locations designated for such repairs. </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Equipment in need of repairs to the electrical system shall have the battery disconnected before such repairs. </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Only use replacement parts that are recommended by the manufacturer.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">For scissor lifts: The safety bar located inside the lifting mechanism shall be used to prevent lowering the scissor-type lift during maintenance.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">All mobile equipment shall be documented using Form EHS-02-109-F 008 Mobile Equipment
               Inventory, or equivalent.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">All training shall be documented using Form EHS-02-109-F 007 Mobile Equipment Qualified
               Operator List, or equivalent.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Driving on Public Roads <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Any mobile equipment that is driven on a public road shall display a high-visibility sign or signal (e.g., reflective triangle placard, flashing beacon light, etc.).</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Local legislation shall be adhered to when driving and operating mobile equipment on public roads: <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Depending on the distance and the type of public road that the mobile equipment will be operated on (e.g., highway, residential, etc.) local legislation may dictate vehicle modifications such as lighting and number plate identification, liscense requirements and age restrictions for operators, and insurance requirements.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Forklifts<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Extreme caution shall be used when meeting pedestrians, making turns, and cornering. <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Operators must sound the horn when meeting pedestrians, making turns, and cornering as long as local legislation permits it.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">A reverse/back-up alarm or light shall be used when the equipment is driven in reverse to warn any employee who may be in the area behind the equipment.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Passengers shall not ride on an industrial truck, unless the truck has an extra
                     seat that allows the passenger to buckle-up while riding.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Arms or legs shall not be placed between the uprights of the mast or outside the
                     running lines of the truck.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Persons shall not stand or pass under any elevated portion of a truck.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Travel-ways shall be free from obstructions, aisles shall be marked, and wide
                     enough (6 feet/2 meters minimum) for vehicle operation.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">An overhead guard shall be used as protection against falling objects.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Lift capacity shall be marked on all powered industrial trucks. Operators shall
                     assure the load does not exceed rated weight limits.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">When a powered industrial truck is left unattended (more than 25 feet/10 meters
                     away or out of sight), load engaging means shall be fully lowered, controls
                     neutralized, power shut off, and brakes set. Wheels shall be blocked if the
                     truck is parked on an incline.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All modifications shall be approved by the manufacturer, and new rated load
                     capacities determined and posted on the truck. Written approval is
                     required.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Operators shall report all accidents, regardless of fault and severity, to a
                     supervisor.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Loads shall be safely arranged, stable, and centered – always use caution when
                     handling loads. Adjust long or high (including multiple-tiered) loads that
                     shall affect capacity.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">A load engaging means, such as a pallet, shall be placed under the load as far as possible.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Extreme care shall be taken when tilting the load forward or backward, particularly when high tiering. <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">An elevated load shall not be tilted forward except when the load is in a deposit position. </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">When stacking or tiering, use only enough backward tilt to stabilize the load.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">If the load being carried obstructs forward view, the driver shall travel with
                     the load backwards.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Loads shall be carried no more than 4 inches/10 centimeters above the ground.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The driver shall look in the direction of and keep a clear view of the path of travel. </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Grades shall be ascended and descended slowly. Position the load uphill relative to the operator when ascending or descending grades.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">While negotiating turns, reduce speed and turn the hand steering wheel in a smooth, sweeping motion.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Stunt driving and horseplay shall be prohibited. </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Aerial and Scissor Lift<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Access gates or openings shall be confirmed closed.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Operators shall stand firmly on the floor of the lift platform or bucket.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Climbing on or leaning over guardrails or handrails is prohibited.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Planks, ladders, or other devices shall not be used as a working position.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Operators shall use a body harness or a restraining belt with a lanyard tied off to the boom or bucket.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Operators shall not belt-off to adjacent structures or poles while in the bucket.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Lower level controls shall not be operated unless permission is obtained from the worker(s) in the lift (except in emergencies).</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Vertical and horizontal reach limits shall not be exceeded.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Hydraulic, mechanical, or electrical safety devices shall not be overridden.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Be aware of overhead clearance and overhead objects, including ceilings.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Operators shall wear hard hats.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Aerial lifts shall not be positioned between overhead hazards if possible.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Outriggers shall be set on pads or on a level, solid surface.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Brakes must be set when outriggers are used.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Wheel chokes shall be used on sloped surfaces when it is safe to do so. If the sloped surface presents a hazard, the lift shall not be used on that surface.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Work zone warnings, such as cones and signs, shall be used when necessary to warn others.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">A reverse/back-up alarm or light shall be used when the equipment is driven in reverse to warn any employees who may be in the area behind the equipment.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Operators shall assure the load does not exceed rated weight limits.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The aerial lift shall not be used as a crane.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Objects larger than the platform shall not be carried.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Operator shall not drive with the lift platform raised (unless the manufacturer’s instructions allow this).</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Skid Steer Loader (Bobcat) Minimum Requirements<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Seat belts shall be worn and seat bars shall be lowered for restraint at all times when operating the equipment.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Operators shall use the steps, grab-handles and skid-resistant surfaces when getting on or off the equipment.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The equipment shall be started with steering levers and hydraulic controls in neutral.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Bystanders shall be kept away from equipment and work area.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Passengers shall not ride on a skid-steer loader unless there is an extra seat and manufactuerer’s instructions allow for it.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The equipment must never carry “riders” or be used as a manlift.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The operator shall look in the direction of and keep a clear view of the path of
                     travel.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">A reverse/back-up alarm or light shall be used when the equipment is driven in reverse to warn any employees who may be standing in the area behind the equipment.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Hands and feet of the operator shall be kept on controls or footrests.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Operators must never lean out the front of the cab with the engine is running.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Lift arms and attachments shall never be raised over another worker.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Operators shall slow down when approaching the dump site.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The equipment’s rated operating capacity (ROC) shall never be exceeded.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The correct size bucket shall be used for the type and density of material being handled.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Equipment controls shall never be operated from the ground. Controls must only be activated from the operator’s seat.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The bucket shall be kept level when raising lift arms to prevent material from falling out of the bucket.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">On slopes, operator shall keep the heavy end of the loader uphill and travel directly up and down slopes, not across them.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Before leaving the operator’s seat, the operator shall lower the lift arms and put attachments flat on the ground, stop the engine, engage the parking brake, raise the seat bar and move controls until both lock, and remove the key to prevent unauthorized start-up.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
