<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1CC536C-BB01-11F0-3508-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Lift Preparation and Execution for complex lifts</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T10:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T10:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="lift-planners,crane-operators,riggers,maintenance personnel,safety officers"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-ehs-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>crane</indexterm>
            <indexterm>rigging-equipment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lifting-plan-templates</indexterm>
            <indexterm>load-monitoring-tools</indexterm>
            <!-- process layer -->
            <indexterm>lift-planning</indexterm>
            <indexterm>site-inspection</indexterm>
            <indexterm>risk-mitigation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lift-execution</indexterm>
            <indexterm>communication-protocols</indexterm>
            <!-- context layer -->
            <indexterm>complex-lifts</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-infrastructure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>heavy-equipment-handling</indexterm>
            <indexterm>production-interruption-management</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operational-safety</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Lift Preparation and Execution for Complex Lifts"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Provides procedures for planning, preparing and executing complex lifts including roles, checks, and communications to ensure safe operations."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="cranes;rigging gear;lifting plans;lift supervisors;communication radios"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:lifting and rigging;usecase:complex lift planning and execution;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="lift planning,complex lifts,rigging,safety,communication"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="plan and execute complex lifts safely and compliantly"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Develop clear criteria for what constitutes a complex lift and require such lifts to have a documented risk assessment and lift plan completed prior to each complex lifting activity.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure that a pre-start checklist/inspection is completed prior to operating the lifting equipment.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Verify the ground is suitable for safe operation of cranes and, where they are fitted, deploy outriggers.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure that the area of the lifting operation is adequately illuminated and external conditions are assessed and controlled.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Only operate cranes, hoists, and lifting equipment within the specified lifting rating. Ensure that the rated load capacity of a crane's bridge, individual hoist, or any sling or fitting is not exceeded. Know the weight of the object being lifted.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Engage loads properly on hooks with hook latch in lock position where fitted.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Isolate the work area and define and manage the operational area using barricades and spotters to prevent the risk of injury from the equipment or the load falling or striking people.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Persons must not under any circumstances enter an area under a suspended load, and never leave suspended loads unattended.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Complex lifts must be supervised and tag lines must be used where a load requires steadying or guidance.</li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
