<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1E241EC-BB01-11F0-1138-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T15:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T15:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="operations teams, maintenance personnel, environmental officers, contractors"/>
         <keywords>
            <indexterm>inspection-checklists</indexterm>
            <indexterm>sediment-removal-tools</indexterm>
            <indexterm>spill-response-kits</indexterm>
            <indexterm>temporary-silt-fencing</indexterm>
            <indexterm>sampling-kits</indexterm>
            <indexterm>stormwater-inspection-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>rain-event-response-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>sediment-trap-maintenance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>sampling-and-monitoring</indexterm>
            <indexterm>spill-containment-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>post-rain-event-cleanup</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-yard-controls</indexterm>
            <indexterm>loading-bay-protections</indexterm>
            <indexterm>stormwater-outfalls</indexterm>
            <indexterm>construction-zones</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Procedure - Stormwater Inspection and Response"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Procedures for inspection, sampling, maintenance and response to stormwater events and spills."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="inspection-forms;sampling-results;sediment-traps;spill-kits;maintenance-records"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:environmental-management;usecase:stormwater-procedures;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="procedure,inspection,sampling,maintenance"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="provide operational steps for stormwater control and response"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">A Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) shall be developed for each site. The SWPPP shall have the following objectives, at a minimum:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">To identify potential sources of pollution at the facility.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">To describe best management practices to reduce or eliminate the amount of pollutants in stormwater discharged from the facility. </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">To provide other elements such as, but not limited to, a facility inspection program, site compliance evaluation program, and record keeping and reporting program.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Stormwater Pollution Prevention Team<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The facility shall develop a stormwater pollution prevention team that shall be responsible for developing, implementing, maintaining, and revising the SWPPP.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Members of the stormwater pollution prevention team shall be familiar with the management and operations of the facility.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Members of the stormwater pollution prevention team shall be listed in the SWPPP with titles, contact information, and primary responsibilities.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Members of the stormwater pollution prevention team shall be responsible for all forms associated with this procedure as well as reports required by local legislation.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Inventory of Potential Pollutant Sources<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Any areas of the facility where industrial materials or activities are exposed to stormwater shall be documented in the SWPPP.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Industrial materials or activities include,but are not limited to:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Material handling equipment or activities; </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Industrial machinery; </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Raw materials; </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Industrial production and processes; and </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Intermediate products, by-products, final products, and waste products. </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Material handling activities include, but are not limited to: the storage, loading and unloading, transportation, disposal, or conveyance of any raw material, intermediate product, final product, by-product or waste product.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">For each area identified, the description shall include:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A list of the industrial activities exposed to storm water;</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A list of the pollutant(s) or pollutant constituents associated with each identified activity. <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The pollutant list shall include all significant materials that are handled, treated, stored, or disposed of, and that may be exposed to the storm water.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Areas where potential spills and leaks could occur that could contribute pollutants to storm water discharges, and the corresponding outfall that would be affected by such spills and leaks.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">List of Past Spills and Leaks<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The facility shall document all significant spills and leaks of hazardous pollutants that actually occurred in exposed areas, or that drained to a stormwater system, in the years (at least 3) prior to the date the SWPPP was prepared or amended.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Non-Stormwater Discharges<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All discharge locations shall be evaluated for the presence of non-stormwater discharges. Unauthorized stormwater discharges shall be eliminated or covered under a permit. Certifications that there are no unauthorized discharges shall be submitted to the appropriate authority, if required. </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All non-stormwater discharges shall be documented using Form EHS-02-131-F004
                     Non-Stormwater Discharge Evaluation, or equivalent.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Best Management Practices<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Stormwater management controls, or best management practices, are implemented to reduce or eliminate the amount of pollutants in stormwater discharged from the facility. The following best management practices shall be considered and selected where applicable:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Non-Structural Controls<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Non-structural controls are practices that are specifically intended to reduce the amount of pollution entering surface waters. They are generally implemented to address the problem at the source. They do not require any structural changes to the facility. </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The facility shall list in the SWPPP all non-structural controls implemented (e.g., Operational procedures, good housekeeping practices, preventative maintenance, preventative measures, etc.).</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Structural Controls<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Structural control measures are necessary to control any pollutants that are still present in the stormwater after the non-structural controls have been implemented. These types of controls are physical features that control and prevent stormwater pollution. They can range from preventative measures to collection structures to treatments systems. Structural controls require construction of a physical feature or barrier. </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The facility shall list in the SWPPP all structural controls implemented (e.g., Diversions, containment, etc.).</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Spill Prevention and Response Procedures<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Equipment and procedures necessary for cleaning up spills and preventing the spilled materials from being discharged shall be available at the facility.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">See Procedure EHS-02-130 Spill Prevention Control and Counter Measures, or equivalent, for more information.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Inspections<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Frequent Visual Inspections<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The facility shall maintain documentation that all stormwater outfalls have been visually evaluated for the presence of non-stormwater discharges that are not exempt or covered by local regulations. </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Documentation of the evaluation shall be maintained using Form
                           EHS-02-131-F001 Frequent Visual Stormwater Checks, or equivalent. </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The frequency of the checks shall be determined by local legislation, the facility stormwater pollution prevention team via risk assessment, or the checks shall be completed quarterly by default.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li id="li_awq_sfp_pzb" class="- topic/li ">Periodic Sampling<ol id="ol_bwq_sfp_pzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Periodic sampling shall follow local legal requirements – methodology,
                           frequency, and reporting. If no such requirements exist, the requirements
                           in section 5.8 <xref href="#r1E241EC-BB01-11F0-1138-09173F13E4C5/li_awq_sfp_pzb" class="- topic/xref ">B</xref> shall be
                           followed.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The facility shall maintain documentation that all stormwater outfalls
                           have been periodically sampled by either a Stormwater Pollution
                           Prevention Team member or a contractor for the presence of non-stormwater
                           discharges that are not exempt or covered by local regulations. <ol id="ol_cwq_sfp_pzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The frequency of the samples shall be quarterly by default unless
                                 local legislation or risk assessment by the Stormwater Pollution
                                 Prevention Team determines a more frequent rate is required.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A sample of water shall be taken from a stormwater outfall within 30
                           minutes, or as soon as possible, after a measurable storm event. The
                           frequency of the samples shall be by default quarterly unless local
                           legislation or a risk assessment by the Storm Water Pollution Prevention
                           team determines a more frequent rate is required.<ol id="ol_dwq_sfp_pzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The employee or contractor shall NEVER ENTER A MANHOLE OR OTHER
                                 CONFINED SPACE to collect a sample, unless documented authorization
                                 is present and EHS-02-102 Confined Space Entry Procedure is being
                                 followed (e.g., Form EHS-02-102-F001 Confined Space Determination
                                 and Classification shall be completed for the space, Form
                                 EHS-02-102-F002 Confined Space Entry Permit shall be utilized if
                                 the space is permitted-required, etc.).</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The periodic sampling shall be documented using Form EHS-02-131-F002
                           Periodic Stormwater Sampling, or equivalent.<ol id="ol_ewq_sfp_pzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Work Instruction EHS-03-010 Periodic Stormwater Sampling shall be
                                 used to complete the associated Form.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Annual Comprehensive Site Inspections/Reporting<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The SWPPP shall be reviewed annually after it is developed and written summaries of the review shall be maintained.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Based on the review, the facility shall amend the SWPPP, as needed, to ensure continued compliance with the conditions of the plan. The annual review shall be retained by the facility for three (3) years. </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Form EHS-02-131-F003 Annual Reporting, or regional equivalent, shall be
                           used to document annual comprehensive site inspections.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">If any of the following conditions occur, the facility shall review and revise the selections, design, installation, and implementation of the control measures to ensure that the condition is eliminated and shall not be repeated in the future:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">An unauthorized release or discharge (e.g., spill, leak, or discharge of non-stormwater not authorized by the SWPPP or other permit) occurs at the facility. </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">A discharge violates a numeric effluent limit.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The facility becomes aware, or local legislation determines, that the control measure are not stringent enough for the discharge to meet applicable water quality standards. </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">An inspection or evaluation of the facility by local legislative officials determines that modifications to the control measures are necessary to meet the control measures/Best Management Practices in the permit.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The quarterly facility inspection, quarterly visual monitoring assessment, or the comprehensive site inspection determine that the control measures are not being properly operated and/or maintained.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">If any of the following conditions occur, the facility shall review the selection, design, installation, and implementation of the control measures to determine if modification are necessary:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Construction or a change in design, operation, or maintenance at the facility significantly changes the nature of pollutants discharged in stormwater from the facility, or significantly increases the quantity of pollutants discharged; or</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Sampling results exceed local regulations. </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Corrective actions shall be documented immediately once discovered. The facility shall document the following information:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Identification of the condition triggering the need for corrective action review</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Description of the problem identified</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Documentation of the date the problem was identified</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Within 30 days of discovery, the following shall be documented:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Summary of corrective action(s) taken or to be taken (or, for triggering events where it is determined that corrective action(s) are not necessary, the basis for this determination)</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Notice of whether modification of the SWPPP are required as a result of this discovery or corrective action(s)</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Date corrective action(s) is initiated</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Date corrective action(s) is completed or expected to be completed</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Training<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Any employee who works in areas where industrial activities or material handling activities are exposed to stormwater (e.g., inspectors, maintenance personnel, all members of the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Team) shall receive training on the contents of the facility’s SWPPP, control measures implemented to achieve compliance with applicable discharge requirements, spill containment and cleanup procedures, maintenance, monitoring, inspection, planning, reporting, and documentation requirements. </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Record Keeping<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All preventative maintenance inspections, the annual comprehensive site inspections/annual report, monthly and quarterly inspections, and records of employee training shall be retained by the facility for at least three (3) years after any permit coverage expires. </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
