<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1E3332B-BB01-11F0-8627-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T17:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T17:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="safety and compliance officers, operations teams, maintenance personnel, occupational health staff, machine operators"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-ehs-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>noise-dosimeter</indexterm>
            <indexterm>audiometry-equipment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>calibration-kit</indexterm>
            <indexterm>preshift-checklist</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>noise-assessment-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>audiometric-testing</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hearing-protection-fitment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>follow-up-action</indexterm>
            <indexterm>recording-and-reporting</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>on-line-measurements</indexterm>
            <indexterm>periodic-screening</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-shutdowns</indexterm>
            <indexterm>employee-exposure-history</indexterm>
            <indexterm>regulatory-compliance</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Step by step procedure for noise assessment, audiometric testing, and required corrective actions."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="noise-dosimeter;audiometer;calibration-standard;hearing-protection-device;test-room"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:ehs;usecase:operational-procedure;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="noise assessment,audiometry,procedures,compliance"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="perform-noise-assessments-and-audiometric-testing"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Noise Exposure Evaluation<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Each facility shall be evaluated by a certified Industrial Hygienist, or regional equivalent (e.g., qualified noise assessors, etc.), for the purpose of determining the scope of its Hearing Conservation Program.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The evaluation shall be accomplished by a Sound Pressure Level Grid Survey or a Dosimetry Study as determined by the facility’s Regional EHS Manager. All noise exposure monitoring results shall be retained by the plant.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">These evaluations shall be conducted initially at each facility and repeated whenever a change in production, process, equipment, or controls increase noise exposures.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Evaluations shall be conducted every 10 years, or according to local regulations, whichever is more stringent, if and when there are no changes in production, process, equipment, or controls that would increase the noise level of the area.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Controls<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Preference shall be placed on implementing engineering controls to reduce noise levels. Engineering controls involve modifying and replacing equipment, or making related physical changes at the noise source or along the transmission path to reduce the noise level at the employee’s ear.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Examples of effective engineering controls include:
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Choosing low-noise tools and machinery; 	
                        </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Maintaining and lubricating machinery and equipment (e.g., oil bearings); </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Placing a barrier between the noise source and employee (e.g., sound walls or curtains); and </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Enclosing or isolating the noise source.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">When engineering controls are not feasible, administrative controls shall be implemented. Administrative controls are changes in the workplace or schedule that reduce or eliminate the employee’s exposure to noise.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Examples of administrative controls include:
                        <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Operating noisy machines during shifts when fewer people are exposed; 
                        </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Limiting the amount of time a person spends at a noise source;</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Providing quiet areas where workers can gain relief from hazardous noise sources; and</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Controlling noise exposure through distance is often an effective, yet simple and inexpensive administrative control. Specifically, for every doubling of the distance between the source of noise and the worker, the noise is decreased by 6 dB.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">When engineering controls nor administrative controls are feasible, personal protective equipment shall be used in the form of hearing protection.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Appropriate hearing protection shall be provided by each facility for employees required to wear hearing protection.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Each facility shall provide employees with the opportunity to select from a variety of suitable hearing protectors. Hearing protection at the plant shall be evaluated and approved by the Regional EHS Manager.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The proper wearing of hearing protection in designated (posted) areas shall be enforced in accordance with established disciplinary procedures.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Hearing protection effectiveness shall be evaluated at the discretion of the Regional EHS Manager.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Employee Training<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Training shall be provided to affected employees prior to the assignment of tasks which may result in exposure to noise greater than or equal to 85 decibels based upon an eight hour time-weighted average (TWA), or local legislative action level, whichever is more stringent.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Training shall include the risks of elevated noise exposure and proper use of hearing protection, at a minimum.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Retraining shall be conducted annually and documented.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Signage and Posting<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Approved hearing protection is required in all areas where the 8-hour TWA noise level is 85 dB or greater, or regional legislative 8-hour TWA, whichever is more stringent. These areas shall be posted in such a manner that they are readily recognized as a hearing protection required area by all who enter.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Audiometric Testing<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">General<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All plant employees and non-plant based employees who routinely travel to and work in plants shall receive an audiometric test.
                        <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The audiometric testing requirement may be disregarded if and when local legislation does not permit audiometric testing or other medical investigations of employees.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All testing shall be performed by a Certified Occupational Hearing Conservationist (COHC), or regional equivalent (e.g. qualified noise assessor, etc.).</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Audiometers and Test Booths<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Microprocessor controlled audiometers shall be the preferred equipment for audiometric testing. Equivalents may be used so long as they meet or exceed local standards for audiometric testing equipment.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Types of Audiograms<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Baseline – reference audiometric test against which future audiograms shall be compared. The baseline audiogram shall be given at the start of employment or within 6 months of the employee’s first exposure to an 8-hour TWA of 85 dB or greater, or local legislative 8-hour TWA, whichever is more stringent.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Monitor – audiometric test after the first (baseline) audiogram. Each employee exposed to noise levels exceeding the action level shall be given a monitor audiogram on a regular basis, to be determined by the regional Health and Safety Manager (e.g., Monitor audiograms in the United States shall be given annually). </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Retest – employees shall be retested when and as instructed by the consulting audiologist, Plant Health and Safety Manager, or Regional Health and Safety Manager.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Administering the Audiogram<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All audiometric tests shall be recorded on the audiometric examination
                           form, EHS-02-133-F001 Audiometric Examination, or equivalent such as the
                           consulting audiologist’s form. The printed audiogram shall be attached to
                           the Audiometric Examination Form.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Regional confidentiality requirements shall be complied with.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Employee Counseling<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All employees shall be offered counseling as to the results of their most recent hearing test whenever consulting audiologists believe, based on their professional judgment, that an employee’s hearing test showed characteristics that are audiologically significant.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Based on this analysis, the audiologist shall interpret the audiogram test
                     results as indicating variance due to noise exposure, variance due to medical
                     reasons, or variance due to medical reasons and noise exposure (mixed) or other
                     reasons using Form EHS-02-133-F002 Employee Counseling, or equivalent form
                     supplied by the consulting audiologist.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The first part of the form shall serve to notify the employee of the
                           date, location and time of counseling. The plant COHC, or regional
                           equivalent, shall complete this section and provide it to the
                           employee.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The second part of the form shall be completed during the counseling
                           session. The COHC, or regional equivalent, shall make detailed written
                           comments on the form while conducting the counseling session. The form
                           shall be dated and signed by both the employee and the COHC.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Documentation and Recordkeeping<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Records of audiometric test results, noise exposure evaluations, employee counseling and employee training shall be maintained in accordance with local medical confidentiality requirements.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Audiometric testing records shall be maintained by the COHC, or regional equivalent vendor.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Noise exposure evaluations shall be maintained by the Plant EHS Manager.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All employee counseling forms shall be retained in the individual employee’s personal file for the employee’s length of service plus 30 years.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
