<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="ListPage_AUTOINV"
         xml:lang="en-us"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Auto Invite</title>
   <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc "/>
   <prolog>
      <author>Yashshree</author>
      <critdates class="- topic/critdates ">
         <created date="2025-11-20+05:30" class="- topic/created "/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-20" class="- topic/revised "/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="administrator,engineering,management,external contractors,analyst"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>auto-invite</indexterm>
            <indexterm>invitation-module</indexterm>
            <indexterm>user-management</indexterm>
            <indexterm>notification-service</indexterm>
            <indexterm>account-provisioning</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>send-invite</indexterm>
            <indexterm>configure-invite</indexterm>
            <indexterm>resend-invite</indexterm>
            <indexterm>auto-provision</indexterm>
            <indexterm>validate-invite</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>mind-administration-guide</indexterm>
            <indexterm>capital-program-management</indexterm>
            <indexterm>user-provisioning</indexterm>
            <indexterm>onboarding-workflow</indexterm>
            <indexterm>infrastructure-software</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>Mind-Administration-Guide</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Auto Invite"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Auto-invite functionality: configure and trigger automatic user invitations and account provisioning workflows."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="auto invite;invitation module;notification service;account provisioning;user"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:Capital-program-management;usecase:auto-invite;industry:capital-program management"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="invite,auto,provision,notification,onboarding"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="auto-invite"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <conbody>
      <p class="- topic/p ">The<uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Auto Invite</uicontrol>feature is used to automatically invite users assigned to specificsecurity roles to multiple projects and contracts based on defined conditions. The users associated with the security roles that are part of an auto invite rule will be automatically invited to projects and contracts that adhere to conditions specified in the auto invite rule.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">For example, if the projects use the grant funding, then at
some point in the workflow, all the projects require approval from the Chief
Financial Officer (CFO). In this example, the CFO needs to be invited to all
such projects. Instead of manually inviting the CFO to each project, you can
use the <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Auto Invite</uicontrol> feature to invite the CFO to all the
projects automatically.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">You can create an auto invite rule and define filter conditions related to projects, contracts, and users. You can create multiple auto invite rules. A role can be used in multiple rules. For example, you can mark the user role Project Manager in Rule 1 and Rule 2.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">When a new user account is created and saved in <ph conref="../../../../Warehouse/Product_Name_Warehouse.dita#reference-9043/product_name"
             class="- topic/ph "/>, the user roles assigned to the userare compared with all the active auto invite rules. Suppose any of the assigned user roles are partof the auto invite rules. In that case, the auto invite rule is executed, and the user is automatically invited to the projects and contracts that adhere to the conditions specified in the rules.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">When a new project or contract is created and saved in <ph conref="../../../../Warehouse/Product_Name_Warehouse.dita#reference-9043/product_name"
             class="- topic/ph "/>, the project or contract details are compared with all the active auto invite rules. Suppose the project or contract details adhereto anyof the conditions defined in the auto invite rules. In that case, these auto invite rules are executed, and the pre-defined users are automatically invited to the project or contract.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">When you create a new auto invite rule or update an existing rule, you can manually run them and invite the required users to the projects and contracts. You can run an existing auto invite rule at any point in time.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
