<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1D7AD1A-BB01-11F0-2107-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T14:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T14:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="maintenance personnel, machine operators, reliability engineers, safety and compliance officers, supervisors"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-ehs-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lockout-tagout-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>isolation-tools</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lockout-kits</indexterm>
            <indexterm>verification-checklists</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>step-by-step-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>isolate-energy-sources</indexterm>
            <indexterm>apply-locks-and-tags</indexterm>
            <indexterm>verify-zero-energy</indexterm>
            <indexterm>safe-restoration</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>maintenance-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>repair-and-service-activities</indexterm>
            <indexterm>production-line-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>mro-processes</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-safety-culture</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Lockout Tagout Procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Step by step lockout tagout procedure covering isolation, application of locks tags verification and safe restoration of equipment."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="isolation-points;padlocks;tags;verification-tools;checklists"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:ehs/usecase:perform-lockout-tagout-procedure/industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="procedure, isolation, verification"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="provide-step-by-step-instructions-for-safe-lockout-tagout"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Employees performing Lockout Tagout Tryout shall be aware of all manufacturer and in-plant instructions prior to performing work. </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">A machine profile shall be developed for each type of machinery or equipment covered by this program to identify the proper Lockout Tagout Tryout procedures for that type of equipment using Form EHS-02-107-F 001 Lockout Tagout Machine Profile or equivalent and shall be available at all times to authorized and affected employees.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">An equivalent form may be used that provides the following information:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Identity of the machinery or equipment </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Type and magnitude of energy </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Machine Shutdown</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Local Energy Isolations</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Release of any stored energy </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Lockout Tagout of all energy sources</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Testing (“Tryout”)</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Restart</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Before shutdown, the authorized employee shall notify all affected employees of the lockout.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">The authorized employee shall identify and isolate all local energy feed locations for the types of the energy to be controlled.</li>
            <li id="li_f11_hl1_pzb" class="- topic/li ">Lockout Tagout Tryout shall be followed according to Work
               Instruction EHS-03-008 Lockout Tagout Tryout or equivalent.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Lockout Tagout Tryout shall only be performed by authorized employees or contractors. </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Lockout Tagout Tryout shall use both locks to isolate energy and tags to identify the system has been isolated.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Tagout alone may be used on a device which is incapable of being locked out. When tagout alone is used, a double tagout method shall be implemented. The tags must be located as close as safely possible to the energy isolating device as well as the main energy feed (panel), in a position that must be immediately obvious to anyone attempting to operate the device.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">When Tagout alone is used, the facility must consider additional means to ensure full employee protection through the implementation of additional safety measures such as the removal of an isolating circuit element, blocking of a controlling switch, opening an extra disconnecting device, or the removal of a valve handle to reduce the likelihood of inadvertent energization.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
