<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1D314B6-BB01-11F0-9964-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T13:06:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T13:06:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="machine-operators,maintenance-personnel,industrial-engineers,safety-and-compliance-officers,plant-management"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-ehs-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>safety-management-system</indexterm>
            <indexterm>permit-to-work-platform</indexterm>
            <indexterm>portable-gas-detectors</indexterm>
            <indexterm>communication-devices</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>procedure-overview</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hazard-assessment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>permit-issuance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>monitoring-and-audit</indexterm>
            <indexterm>incident-reporting</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>maintenance-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-floor-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>worker-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>regulatory-compliance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>mro-workflows</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Confined space general procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="General procedure covering hazard assessment permit issuance monitoring and incident reporting for confined space work"/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="permit-to-work;hazard-assessment-form;supervisor;entry-attendant;gas-monitor"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:ehs;usecase:confined-space-procedure;industry:glass manufacturing heavy-machinery-and-industrial-equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="hazard-assessment,permit-to-work,monitoring,audit,incident-reporting"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="Define consistent steps for conducting confined space activities to protect personnel and comply with requirements"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Determination and Classification of Confined Spaces<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All spaces located on each facility property shall be identified and evaluated using Form EHS-02-102-F 001 Confined Space Determination and Classification or equivalent. This form will determine if the space is a confined space, if the space is a permit-required confined space, or if the space can be reclassified as a non-permit required confined space. <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">In order to reclassify the space, the work to be done must not create any hazards that would require permit entry. </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All spaces identified as a confined space shall be documented using the Form EHS-02-102-F 003 Confined Space Inventory Log or equivalent. </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Posting of Permit-Required Confined Space<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All permit-required confined spaces shall be posted with a warning to employees not to enter the space or not to enter the space without a permit.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All non-permit required confined spaces shall be posted.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Personal Protective Equipment Selection<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Personal protective equipment (PPE) for entry into a confined space shall be determined using Form EHS-03-001-F Job Hazard Analysis and PPE Assessment or equivalent.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Non-Permit Confined Space Entry <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">There are no special requirements for personnel to enter or perform work in confined spaces that have been determined to be non-permit spaces. <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Certain operations; including welding, grinding, torch cutting, painting,
                           or any other operation with the potential to change the space’s
                           atmosphere could change the classification of the space from non-permit
                           to permit-required.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Should atmosphere-altering operations need to be performed in the non-permit space, then reclassification of the space shall be necessary and a confined space entry permit shall be completed using Form EHS-02-102-F 002 Confined Space Entry Permit.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Permit-Required Confined Space Entry <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Entry Permit <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Prior to personnel entry into a permit-required confined space, a supervisor trained in confined space shall plan the entry by utilizing the Form EHS-02-102-F 002 Confined Space Entry Permit or equivalent. The entry permit serves as a means to assist in the evaluation of potential hazards and/or conditions in the permit space and to document that control measures have been implemented to eliminate those hazards. </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Alternate Methods <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Alternate methods, such as using a tool or robot to perform the work, shall be a preferred method whenever possible to prevent personnel from entering confined space.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All alternate methods shall be documented in the Form EHS-02-102-F 002
                           Confined Space Entry Permit or equivalent.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Pre-Entry Briefing<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Once the entry supervisor has identified all potential hazards, hazard control, required personal protective equipment and emergency equipment required for the task, he/she shall conduct a pre-entry briefing with all entrants, attendants, and any other affected personnel. In this briefing, all items contained in the confined space entry permit shall be discussed, and any issues regarding the entry shall be resolved. The objective of this briefing is to make all involved persons aware of and confident with their responsibilities regarding the entry.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Atmospheric Testing <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Atmospheric testing of the permit-required space shall be conducted prior
                           to any entry into the space, and continuously while the space is
                           occupied. Continuous air monitoring shall be accomplished by wearing the
                           monitor while inside the space.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A multi-gas detector/monitor shall be utilized to conduct atmospheric
                           testing in the space.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">If the space is vacated for any duration of time, retesting of the space
                           shall be conducted prior to re-entry.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">In all cases, monitoring shall be conducted for oxygen concentrations,
                           percentage of the lower explosion limit, carbon monoxide, and hydrogen
                           sulfide. Additional monitoring for airborne hazardous materials may be
                           required. Pre-entry atmospheric test results shall be recorded on the
                           Form EHS-02-102-F 002 Confined Space Entry Permit or equivalent.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Air Monitor Calibration <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The multi-gas monitor used by the plant shall be calibrated and checked in accordance with manufacturer’s specifications and at a minimum, daily prior to entry. </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">If the gas monitor alarms at any time, the space shall be evacuated and not re-entered until atmospheric conditions fall within acceptable entry conditions.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Contractors<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">When a contractor performs permit-required confined space entry at an Space facility, the following shall be accomplished by the Space contract representative.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Provide the contractor with a copy of this Confined Space Entry Procedure.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Apprise the contractor that the space is a permit required confined space
                           and that the contractor must comply with all provisions of the Space
                           requirements and local Confined Space Standard.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Apprise the contractor of any known hazards that make the space a
                           permit-required confined space.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Apprise the contractor of any precautions or procedures that Space has
                           implemented for the protection of employees in or near permit-required
                           confined spaces where contractor personnel will be working.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Coordinate entry operations with the contractor, when both Space and
                           contractor personnel will be working in or near permit spaces. In these
                           instances, the Space Confined Space Entry Program will be followed.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The contractor must advise what emergency procedures will be used so Space
                           can assist with coordination of local responding emergency medical
                           services arriving at the facility.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Communicate with the contractor at the conclusion of the entry operations
                           regarding the confined space program followed and regarding any hazards
                           confronted or created in the permit-required space.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
