<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1DB91C0-BB01-11F0-8906-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T15:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T15:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="operations-team,maintenance-and-mro-staff,plant-workforce,safety-and-compliance-officers"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>respiratory-equipment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>fit-testing-kit</indexterm>
            <indexterm>ppe-supply-chain</indexterm>
            <indexterm>air-monitoring-device</indexterm>
            <indexterm>training-portal</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>respirator-selection</indexterm>
            <indexterm>fit-testing-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>cleaning-and-maintenance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>medical-evaluation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>use-and-storage</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>airborne-contaminant-control</indexterm>
            <indexterm>high-dust-zones</indexterm>
            <indexterm>manufacturing-floor-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-tasks</indexterm>
            <indexterm>occupational-health</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Procedural steps for selection fit testing maintenance and use of respiratory protection."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="respirator-type;fit-test-record;cleaning-solution;storage-cabinet"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:EHS;usecase:respiratory-procedure;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="respiratory,procedure,fit-testing,maintenance"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="provide stepwise guidance for respiratory protection procedures"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Responsibility<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Each facility shall designate an employee who has full authority and responsibility to administer this procedure. The designated employee shall ensure that the business unit or facility fulfills the requirements of this procedure.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The designated employee shall be responsible for:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Monitoring or conducting an exposure assessment of potential respiratory hazards,</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Developing standard operating procedures for tasks that involve respiratory protection,</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Maintaining records, and</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Conducting program evaluations.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Selection of Respirators<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Form EHS-02-114-F 001 Respirator Selection and Evaluation, or equivalent, shall be used to determine the type of respirator needed for the specific application and shall be evaluated by a physician or licensed health care professional (PLHCP)</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Only certified and appropriately marked respirators for the region or country (e.g., NIOSH) shall be used.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The Assigned Protection Factor (APF) such as those identified by local legislation for NIOSH or COSHH respirators shall be considered when selecting a respirator.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Medical Evaluation and Clearance<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">This section and associated forms are only applicable in those regions where a medical evaluation is required to determine an employee’s ability to use a respirator before the person is fit tested and/or uses a respirator.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Form EHS-02-114-F 002 Respirator Medical Evaluation, or equivalent, shall be completed by the employee and evaluated by the PLHCP. The PLHCP may have a form that can be substituted.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">This medical evaluation form, or equivalent, shall indicate the type of respirator to be used, the level of work during respirator use, the extent of use, and any special work considerations.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Form EHS-02-114-F 003 Respirator Questionnaire, or equivalent, shall be completed by the employee and evaluated by the PLHCP.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The questionnaire form, or equivalent, will determine the employee’s ability to wear a respirator based on medical history.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">It is essential that the questions be completed as fully and accurately as possible in order to ensure the safety and well-being of the employee during respirator use.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Respirator selection forms, medical evaluation forms and questionnaires shall be reviewed confidentially with the PLHCP. The employee shall have the opportunity to discuss the results of the medical evaluation with the PLHCP.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Additional medical evaluations shall be provided if any of the following occur:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">An employee reports medical signs or symptoms that are related to the ability to use a respirator.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The PLHCP, supervisor, or the respiratory program administrator observes a condition which indicates that an employee needs to be re-evaluated.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Information from the respiratory protection program, including observations made during fit testing and program evaluation, indicates a need for additional employee medical evaluation.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A change occurs in the workplace conditions that may result in a substantial increase in the physiological burden placed on an employee.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Exposure information indicates a more frequent need for respiratory assessment.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Upon completion of the medical evaluation, the PLHCP shall provide a written determination as to whether a follow-up medical evaluation is required before fit testing:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A copy shall be placed in the employee’s medical record.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A copy shall be retained by the PLHCP.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A copy shall be provided to the employee.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">If the PLHCP finds that a negative pressure respirator may place the employee’s health at increased risk because of a medical condition, Space shall provide a Powered Air-Purifying Respirator (PAPR) until a future medical evaluation finds that the employee is medically able to use a negative pressure respirator.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The above requirement shall be voided if the PLHCP’s medical evaluation finds that the employee cannot use a PAPR.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Fit Testing<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Upon medical evaluation clearance from the PLHCP, the employee shall pass a fit test. <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Fit testing is conducted to assess the adequacy of the respiratory protection to properly seal to the employee’s face. Employees shall be properly fit tested prior to use of any respirator.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The employee shall have no facial hair where the sealing surface of the respirator contacts the wearer’s skin for the fit test.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Facial hair includes whiskers, stubble, and beards.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Sideburns and mustaches that are long enough to interfere with the seal or foul the respirator’s exhalation valve shall also be prohibited.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Persons in obvious violation of this requirement shall not be fit tested or permitted to work in a respirator-required area.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The above facial hair guidelines shall also apply to employees who are expected to provide temporary relief in an area where a respirator is required. <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Members of emergency response teams, such as HAZMAT response, shall meet the facial hair guidelines at all times, or shall have shaving equipment available to them at the workplace.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Daily users of respirators shall meet the grooming standard whenever at work.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Employees who use a respirator on an infrequent basis (less than once a month) shall meet the facial hair guidelines at the time of respirator use, or have shaving equipment available to them at the workplace.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Persons relieving in a frequent-use area or job need only meet the facial hair requirement when in that relief capacity.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The preferred method of fit testing shall be quantitative.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Qualitative fit testing shall be performed when quantitative is not possible.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Employees new to the Respiratory Protection Program shall have a variety of respirators and sizes available to them when being fit tested for the first time. <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">If the person/company performing the fit testing does not have a variety of respirators available, then Space shall send a variety of respirators with the employee to the fit test.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Employees who have been previously tested shall bring their current respirator(s).</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Respirator users shall be fit tested on a regular basis according to local legislative requirements (e.g., United States – annually) or sooner if the person has a change in physical condition which could affect respirator fit.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Such conditions may include facial scarring, dental changes, cosmetic surgery, obvious changes in body weight, and whenever a respirator of a different size, style, or model is used.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The requirement to fit test shall also cover atmosphere-supplying respirators such as Self-Contained Breathing Apparatuses (SCBA) if they are utilized in the facility.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">An optional fit test certification card may be given to employees who have completed the fit test procedure. This is an option when verification is needed that relief employees are approved to wear a respirator.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Proper Use of Respirators (Routine and Emergency Situations)<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All personal protective equipment including corrective glasses or goggles shall be worn in a manner that does not interfere with the seal of the facepiece to the skin of the employee.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Employees shall perform a user seal check each time they put on a tight-fitting respirator. A quick condition and integrity check may also be performed.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Supervisors shall monitor all employees using respirators to assess employee exposure and stress. Whenever there is a change in working conditions which will affect respirator effectiveness, the use of respirators shall be re-evaluated.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">If employees detect vapor or gas breakthrough, changes in breathing resistance, or leakage of the facepiece, they shall leave the work area immediately to check the respirator. <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Employees shall not return to the work area unless the problem is completely corrected (i.e., replacement of the filters or cartridges, a fit check, repair or replacement of the respirator, etc.).</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Each facility shall develop change schedules to determine when cartridges or canisters on respirators need replaced, unless the unit has an End of Service Life Indicator (ESLI). Schedules shall be determined by historical data, measured contaminant levels, and manufacturers’ recommendations.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">If the respirator’s End of Service Life Indicator or the change schedule indicates the need to change the filter or cartridge, the employee shall leave the work area immediately to replace it.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Chemical cartridge and filter air-purifying respirators shall not be used in oxygen-deficient atmospheres, Immediately Dangerous to Life or Health (IDLH) atmospheres, or in situations where the chemical exposure exceeds the calculated maximum use concentration according to local legislation.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Only Self-Contained Breathing Apparatuses (SCBA)-type respirators or airline units with escape packs shall be used in IDLH atmospheres, and employees shall be trained in their use prior to carrying out any work in that environment.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Selenium (Se) atmospheres may be an exception to this requirement as long as the Time Weighted Average (TWA) is not exceeded.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">No person shall enter an IDLH environment unless a backup SCBA-user capable of providing rescue is stationed outside the IDLH area. <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Visual, voice, or signal line communication shall be maintained between the entrant and the backup. </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Backups shall have appropriate retrieval equipment and let another responsible person know of their intentions prior to entering a rescue situation.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Cleaning, Inspection, Maintenance, and Storage<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Cleaning<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Respirators issued for the exclusive use of an employee shall be cleaned and disinfected as often as necessary to be maintained in a sanitary condition.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Respirators used in routine and emergency situations shall be cleaned and disinfected after each use.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Respirators used in fit testing and training shall be cleaned and disinfected after each use.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Pandemic style disposable respirators shall be discarded after each day’s use.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Disposable respirators shall not be reused.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Respirators shall be cleaned and disinfected according to manufacturer recommendations.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Inspection<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All respirators used in non-emergency situations shall be inspected before each use and during cleaning.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">For SCBAs, which may require more frequent inspections, the breathing air
                           cylinders shall be maintained in a fully charged state and recharged when
                           the pressure falls below the manufacturer’s recommended pressure
                              level.<ol id="ol_myl_4s3_pzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">In addition, the regulator and warning devices shall be inspected
                                 to ensure that they function properly.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Defective units shall be removed from service.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Maintenance<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Repairs or adjustments to respirator equipment shall only be made according to manufacturer instructions</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">SCBA reducing valves, regulators, and alarms shall be adjusted or repaired only by the manufacturer or a technician trained by the manufacturer.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Storage<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Respirators shall be stored per the manufacturer’s recommendations to protect them from damage, contamination, dust, sunlight, extreme temperatures, excessive moisture, damaging chemicals, and to prevent deformation of the facepiece and exhalation valve.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Breathing Air Quality and Use<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Compressed breathing air shall meet at least the following qualities:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Oxygen content of 19.5% to 23.5%</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Hydrocarbon content of 5 milligrams or less per cubic meter of air</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Carbon monoxide content of 10 ppm or less</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Carbon dioxide content of 1,000 ppm or less</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Lack of noticeable odor</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Compressed breathing air shall have a certificate of analysis meeting Type 1 - Grade D requirements, or similar local certification.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Cylinders used to supply breathing air shall be tested and maintained as prescribed by local legislative requirements.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Initial certification shall be completed by the cylinder manufacturer.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Certification renewals shall be scheduled by the program administrator.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Training<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Prior to using a respirator, each employee shall receive instructions to ensure knowledge of the following:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Why a respirator is necessary</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">How improper fit, usage, or maintenance can compromise the effect of the respirator</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Capabilities and limitation of the respirator</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Proper respirator use in emergency situations</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Proper inspection, use, and seal checks</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Proper maintenance and storage</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Signs and symptoms which would reveal a medical problem</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Retraining shall be completed on an annual basis or according to local legislative requirements, and whenever the employee changes the type of respirator they will use, demonstrates insufficient knowledge, or faces a new respiratory hazard in the workplace.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Record Keeping<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Employee fit testing dates, personal respirator information, as well as training and form requirements shall be maintained using EHS-02-114-F 004 Assigned Respirator Record, or equivalent.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
