<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1A5E233-BB01-11F0-2050-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-11-06+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-06"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="operator,maintenance,safety-engineer"/>
         <keywords>
            <indexterm>metr-bat-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>batch-house-pest-control</indexterm>
            <indexterm>cleaning-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>rodent-control</indexterm>
            <indexterm>trap-placement</indexterm>
            <indexterm>inspection-cycle</indexterm>
            <indexterm>chemical-dilution</indexterm>
            <indexterm>surface-sanitization</indexterm>
            <indexterm>waste-disposal</indexterm>
            <indexterm>compliance-verification</indexterm>
            <indexterm>glass-manufacturing</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-hygiene</indexterm>
            <indexterm>environmental-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>workplace-cleanliness</indexterm>
            <indexterm>process-compliance</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-BAT-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Batch House Pest Control — Procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Step-by-step pest control procedure for batch house buildings, covering inspection, cleaning, chemical use, and verification steps."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="rodent-control;trap-station;chemical-dilution;inspection-report;waste-log;cleaning-cycle"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:glass-production;usecase:procedural-guidance;industry:glassmanufacturing"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="procedure,pest-control,sanitation,inspection,validation"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="procedure"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section id="section_lbj_sy3_nzb" class="- topic/section ">
         <ol id="ol_gfw_sy3_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Pest Control – General<ol id="ol_g5p_5y3_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Prevention:<ol id="ol_k3y_yy3_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Adequate pest control measures must be taken to:<ol id="ol_ckn_zy3_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Prevent the entrance of pests.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Deny pests harborage, food or water.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Detect and eliminate pests as necessary.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">If bordering properties not under Space control present undue risk to
                           product integrity, additional monitoring, extermination and building
                           maintenance shall be initiated so as to exclude and control pests, dirt
                           and other potential contaminants originating from such non-controllable
                           areas.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Activity Logs<ol id="ol_h54_dz3_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A map of the facility property shall be maintained that indicates:<ol id="ol_tcq_2z3_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Locations of all traps and monitoring devices.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Pest activity for the current and previous year including date of
                                    occurrence.<ol id="ol_a25_fz3_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li class="- topic/li "> If desired, separate maps may be maintained for each year’s
                                       activity.Maps may be paper, whiteboard, or electronic. If
                                       electronic tracking is used, tracking charts are an
                                       acceptable alternative to the physical map, as the purpose is
                                       to identify trends. </li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Maps may be paper, whiteboard, or electronic. If electronic
                                       tracking is used, tracking charts are an acceptable
                                       alternative to the physical map, as the purpose is to
                                       identify trends.</li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Monitoring Frequency<ol id="ol_gn2_3z3_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Pest control devices shall be monitored at a frequency sufficient to
                           prevent infestation. This frequency shall be determined by the
                           cooperative efforts of the plant management and the pest control
                              operator.<ol id="ol_vrz_3z3_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The minimum monitoring frequency shall not be less than once per
                                 month.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Rodent Control<ol id="ol_tqh_pz3_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Use and Control of Rodent Monitoring Devices<ol id="ol_mlx_pz3_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Bait stations, mechanical traps and glueboards shall be monitored
                           regularly. Accurate records must be kept of their condition and
                              effectiveness.<ol id="ol_i31_rz3_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The minimum monitoring frequency shall not be less than once per
                                 month.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Each bait station and mechanical trap shall:<ol id="ol_ytj_r1j_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Be code-marked for location reference.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Have a service date tag or UPC code affixed to the inside of the
                                 top cover.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Have corresponding wall markers to readily identify the locations
                                 of missing devices.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Bait stations shall be of an EPA-approved tamper resistant design, and
                           be durable and moisture-resistant.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Bait stations shall be locked and anchored to the ground or building to
                           prevent disruption by non-target animals.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The use of toxic bait inside of buildings should only be considered as a
                           last resort, and implemented only after increased non-baited trapping has
                           proven ineffective.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Non-toxic baits (e.g., peanut butter on a snap trap) may be used if
                           baited traps are deemed necessary.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">EHS and the plant's Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) coordinator must
                           be contacted prior to the use of any toxic bait inside.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Exterior Perimeter of Buildings<ol id="ol_ydn_cbj_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Perimeter Attributes<ol id="ol_p52_dbj_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The surface perimeters surrounding buildings used for the
                                 production of or storage of glass shall be constructed of a hard
                                 surface (concrete, asphalt, small stones, small cullet, or similar
                                 material). This discourages rodent burrowing, promotes good
                                 drainage, impedes vegetation growth, and aids in clean up.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The perimeters shall extend at least 3 feet (0.9 meters) beyond
                                 the bases of the building walls.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Plastic or nylon mesh ground cover shall not be used under a stone
                                 or cullet perimeter.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Bait Stations<ol id="ol_s2k_fbj_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Bait stations shall be placed at an initial spacing of 50 to 75
                                 feet (15.2 to 22.8 meters). This spacing shall be periodically
                                 reviewed and adjusted as necessary in response to pest activity
                                 data.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Building Integrity<ol id="ol_pfn_lbj_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Windows in warehouses, production departments, and support
                                 departments adjacent to Production lines shall be fitted with
                                    screens.<ol id="ol_wyq_mbj_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">The Forming department and Batch and Furnace department are
                                       exempt from the screening requirement.</li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Exterior Housekeeping<ol id="ol_j3z_pbj_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">There shall be no accumulation of drums, pallets, machinery,
                                 lumber, boxes, trash, high grass or weeds. All of these may provide
                                 protected areas for pests.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Pallets, boards or other similar materials shall not be placed
                                 against outside walls. Doing so provides easy access for rodents or
                                 other vermin, and impedes inspection and placement of traps.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Bird Control<ol id="ol_dfw_5bj_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Bird control can be difficult. Like rodent control, bird control should
                     incorporate an integrated pest management approach. Many quick fix ideas have
                     been developed, with very few showing any degree of long-term success. Some of
                     these control measures include the use of noisemakers, flashing lights,
                     imitation owls or snakes, sticky roosts, etc. The most successful bird control
                     programs include the following:<ol id="ol_ijd_wbj_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Regular removal and destruction of all nests of resident birds. The
                           removal program should be ongoing to prevent the building of new nests.
                           Persistence is required, and several nest removal/rebuilding cycles may
                           be necessary before the birds will become discouraged and vacate the
                           area.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Bird droppings must be promptly cleaned up upon discovery, and increased
                           surveillance must take place to prevent recurrence.<ol id="ol_ldy_ybj_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Bird droppings can present significant health problems. Consult
                                 the local pest control operator or a professional industrial
                                 cleaning service if extensive cleanup is necessary.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
