<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1DC810E-BB01-11F0-4012-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T15:19:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T15:19:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="operations teams,machine operators,maintenance personnel,safety and compliance officers,plant management"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>forklift-system</indexterm>
            <indexterm>conveyor-controls</indexterm>
            <indexterm>traffic-control-signage</indexterm>
            <indexterm>vehicle-gate-systems</indexterm>
            <indexterm>material-handling-equipment</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>vehicle-movement-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>loading-and-unloading-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>traffic-separation-process</indexterm>
            <indexterm>escort-and-access-control</indexterm>
            <indexterm>inspection-and-maintenance-checks</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>warehouse-and-yard-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>interdepartmental-material-flow</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-safety-zones</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operator-training-and-competency</indexterm>
            <indexterm>mro-integration</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Step by step procedures for safe vehicle and material movement within the plant"/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="forklifts;conveyors;loading-bays;traffic-signs;inspection-forms"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:operational-procedure;usecase:traffic-and-distribution-procedures;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="procedure,safety,loading,traffic"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="operational-guidance-for-safe-material-movements"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Responsibilities<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Each Space site shall have local site arrangements to manage workplace transport.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">There shall be a responsible person(s) ensuring that transport is managed.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The person(s) responsible for transport shall carry out a workplace transport risk assessment or job hazard analysis.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Workplace Transport Risk Assessment<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Work activities involving vehicles (including visiting vehicles) shall be identified over a reasonable period (e.g. over the course of a week). Activities may include:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Arrival and departure;</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Travel within the workplace;</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Loading, unloading and securing loads;</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Coupling and uncoupling; and</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Vehicle maintenance work.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The risks associated with these activities shall be identified, including but not limited to:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Struck by a moving vehicle;</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Fall from a vehicle (e.g., while getting in or out, or during loading);</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Struck by object falling from vehicle;</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Tipping of vehicle.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">General Practices<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The vehicles<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Vehicles shall be safe and suitable for their use;</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Vehicles shall be properly maintained;</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Unsafe vehicles shall be replaced with new, safer vehicles.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The routes or roadways used by the vehicles<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Routes shall be safe and suitable for the type and number of vehicles using them;</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Routes shall be properly maintained;</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Nearby obstructions, curbs or edges shall be considered.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Drivers<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">There shall not be pressures on drivers that might encourage them to work less safely (e.g., rushing to complete work on schedule);</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">There shall not be a risk of drivers becoming overtired;</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Drivers shall observe designated routes and speed limits;</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Drivers shall not take short cuts.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Other people<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Other workers, visitors, contractors, or members of the public shall be kept clear of workplace vehicles wherever possible.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Contractors and Subcontractors<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The site shall provide contractors with appropriate environmental, health
                           and safety training about workplace transport, so that their work may be
                           done safely.<ol id="ol_ppy_sv3_pzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Contractor training may cover:<ol id="ol_hgl_5v3_pzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Routes to be used,</li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">vehicles and equipment on site,</li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">specific hazards,</li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">and other people on site, including other contractors or
                                       visiting drivers.</li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Visiting Drivers <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Visiting drivers to Space sites shall be told the layout of the workplace, the route they need to take, and relevant safe working practices (e.g. for parking and unloading), as they may not have visited the site before. Consider printing site rules, directions, maps, etc. (e.g. narrow routes, weak bridges), so visiting drivers know what to expect before arriving on site.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Visiting drivers shall not have to enter potentially dangerous areas to move to or from their vehicles to places such as the site office, or lavatory or washroom.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Foreign drivers may have different visibility from their cabs (if their vehicles are opposite drive). They may be unfamiliar with local signs or speed limits. These drivers shall be provided instructions in other languages, if necessary.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Shared Premises <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Where an Space site shares its premises with another business (e.g., logistic providers), there shall be cooperation with them in all environmental, health and safety matters, including workplace transport.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The main employer who controls the worksite shall take responsibility for coordinating workplace transport by holding discussions with other employers; obtaining environmental, health and safety information from them, and seeking their agreement to site-wide arrangements.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Traffic Management<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Traffic System<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Each site shall have a carefully considered traffic system including:
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Adequate space for safe movement;</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Directional signs to indicate traffic flow;</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Avoiding the need to reverse where possible;</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Traffic warning signs;</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Appropriate speed limits;</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Designated parking areas.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Roadway surfaces shall be maintained in good condition, where practical.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Roadways shall be adequately lit, where practical.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Systems shall be in place for dealing with adverse weather conditions, snow and ice.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Systems shall be in place for dealing with oil/gas spillages from vehicles.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Safe Site<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Vehicles and pedestrians shall be kept separate whenever possible.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Reversing shall be made unnecessary whenever possible.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Site equipment that is used by drivers shall be operated from a safe place, e.g.: 
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Gate/barrier buttons, intercom systems and security points that can be operated from the vehicle driving position;</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Fill gauges that can be read without needing to climb on vehicles or structures;</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Controls for dock levelers that can be used from a sufficient distance of the moving parts. </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Wherever practicable, parking areas for all vehicles using the workplace – including private vehicles shall be provided. Drivers leaving parked vehicles must not have to cross potentially dangerous areas.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Traffic Routes<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Every Space site shall be organized so that pedestrians and vehicles may circulate safely. Workplace traffic routes must also be suitable for the people and/or vehicles using them. Where vehicles and pedestrians share a traffic route, they must be safely separated.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Every workplace traffic route shall be constructed so that the driving surface is suitable for the purpose for which it is used. The build quality of outdoor traffic routes must be similar to that required for public highways.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">General principles for safe traffic routes are:
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Traffic routes shall be wide enough for the safe movement of the largest vehicle permitted to use them (including visiting vehicles). </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Traffic routes shall take vehicle height into account. 
                        <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Other potentially dangerous obstructions, such as overhead electric cables, or pipes containing hazardous chemicals, shall be protected using goal posts, height gauge posts, or barriers.</li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Traffic routes shall be planned to give the safest routes between calling places.
                        <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Routes shall be avoided that pass close to such things as unprotected fuel or chemical tanks or pipelines, unprotected road edges, unfenced edges of elevated weighbridges, loading bays or excavations, or anything that is likely to collapse or be left in a dangerous state if hit by a vehicle.</li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Traffic routes shall be constructed of suitable material for the location, the type of traffic, the size of the route, and the ground or foundation it is laid on.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Traffic routes shall have firm and even surfaces, and be properly drained. </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Traffic routes shall avoid steep slopes. If steep slopes are unavoidable, they must be properly signposted.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Traffic routes shall avoid sharp or blind bends, where practical.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Traffic routes shall be maintained to provide a good grip for vehicles and people (e.g., by roughening smooth surfaces, or applying sand to slippery ones).</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Visibility<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Forward visibility shall be good enough to allow drivers to see and avoid hazards. Adequate visibility is related to vehicle speed and the distance drivers need to stop or change direction safely to avoid hazards. Additional factors affecting visibility are available light, dust, bad weather, the height of the driver above the road and the arrangement of vehicle windows.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">There shall be enough visibility at junctions and bends to allow drivers and pedestrians to see anything that might be dangerous. Sharp or blind bends must be avoided, and where they are unavoidable measures must be considered such as mirrors to aid vision around corners.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">When visibility at a junction cannot be improved sufficiently, stop signs or traffic signals shall be implemented. Alternatively, consider a one-way system.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Speed<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Speed shall be regulated through traffic calming features and signage.
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Traffic calming features (e.g., speed humps, narrowing routes by use of bollards, raised kerbs or chicanes, and rumble strips or areas) stop drivers travelling too quickly. However, the wrong traffic calming feature may sometimes increase risk, (e.g. by affecting the stability of vehicles or less-secure loads). Various features available must be assessed and selected based on its appropriateness for the traffic at the site. </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Traffic calming features shall be clearly visible (e.g., illumination or reflective strips).</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Speed limits shall be sensible and practicable, or drivers may be tempted to break them. Speed limits must to be appropriate for:
                  <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The vehicles using the route; </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The types of load they carry and how they carry them; </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The driving surface;</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">The route layout, including how tight the bends are, and visibility at junctions; </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Hazards along the way; </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Work being done on or near the route;</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Proximity to pedestrians.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Pedestrians<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Pedestrians shall be provided separate routes away from vehicles, wherever possible. Protective barriers, clearly marked pedestrian and vehicle routes, and raised curbs (kerbs) may assist in separating pedestrians from vehicles.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Building entrances shall have separate doorways for vehicles and pedestrians, with vision panels on all doors. Barriers or guard rails may be useful at building entrances and exits, at corners, and to prevent pedestrians walking straight onto roads.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Where pedestrian and vehicle routes cross, well-marked and signage at crossing points shall be provided. Dropped curbs (kerbs) must be used where the walkway is raised above the driving surface. Barriers, rails or deterrent paving must be provided to direct pedestrians to designated crossing points.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">On routes used by both pedestrians and automatic (driverless) vehicles, vehicles shall be fitted with safeguards to reduce the risk of injury if they do hit someone.
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">As much clearance as possible must be provided between vehicles and pedestrians, and fixtures along the route must not create tripping hazards. </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Signs, Signals and Markings<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Road signs used to warn or inform traffic in private workplaces shall be the same as those used on public roads, wherever a suitable sign exists.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Route markings shall be used to indicate traffic lanes, route edges, priority at junctions, stop lines, pedestrian crossings and so on, and to instruct drivers (e.g. ‘SLOW’). Warning signs must be used to indicate hazards along the way. Traffic lights, speed sensors and flashing warning signs may be used to control traffic flow and speed.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The site shall use the same types of road markings as on public roads to regulate traffic flow (e.g., white and yellow lines). Markings may be made reflective for improved visibility.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Signs shall be placed so that people have time to see them, and take appropriate action before they reach the hazard. All signs must be clearly understandable, be easily noticed, clean and well-maintained so that they are visible at all times. Where overhead clearance is limited, consider the use of warning signs. Reflective (and preferably illuminated) signs must be used when they have to be visible in darkness.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Lighting<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Every Space site shall have suitable and sufficient lighting. Roads, maneuvering areas, junctions, pedestrian routes and areas, and places where there is regular movement of vehicles or mobile equipment need particular attention.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Measures shall be taken to avoid sudden changes in lighting levels (e.g., when moving from a dark warehouse to bright daylight).</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Housekeeping <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Traffic routes shall be kept free from obstruction and from anything that may make a person slip, trip or fall. Sites must be kept clean and free from obstructions. Spilled loads, anything that falls from a vehicle, used packaging, and anything else that creates a risk of falling or tripping must be dealt with immediately.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Safe Vehicles<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">General Practices<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Every Space site shall make sure that vehicles are suitable for the purpose for which it is provided or used. When choosing vehicles, the working conditions and risks to the health and safety of people using the vehicle must be taken into account.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Vehicles shall be stable in use, and provide a safe way to get into and out of the cab and any other parts of the vehicle that need regular access. Vehicle access features, such as ladders, steps and walkways, must have the same basic safety features as site-based systems.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Vehicles shall have seats and seat belts that are safe and comfortable. Where appropriate, vehicles must have protection for drivers if they overturn, or against being hit by falling objects, including roll protection and restraints where necessary. Dangerous vehicle parts, such as chain drives, exposed hot exhaust pipes, must have guards.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Vehicles and mobile equipment shall have appropriate working devices, lights, hazard warning lights, reversing lights, a horn, rotating flashing beacons, and reversing alarms, to help people near the vehicle know it is moving. Conspicuous painting and marking may also be used to help a vehicle stand out.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Transport Maintenance and Inspections<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Every Space site shall ensure that workplace vehicles are in good working order. Vehicles must be maintained so that they remain mechanically sound.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Daily inspections shall include basic safety checks by drivers before using the vehicle (such as checking that the tires are properly inflated). Form EHS-02-115-F Daily Vehicle Checklist, or equivalent, shall be completed at the start of the first shift that the vehicle will be driven.
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Forklifts, steer loaders, scissor lifts, and other similar mobile
                                 equipment shall be inspected using Form EHS-02-109-F 001 Aerial and
                                 Scissor Lift Pre-Use Inspection Checklist, Form EHS-02-109-F 003
                                 Forklift Pre-Use Inspection Checklist, and Form EHS-02-109-F 005
                                 Skid Steer Loader Pre-Use Inspection Checklist, or
                                 equivalents.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Regular preventative maintenance inspections shall be carried out based on time in use or mileage, shall be more thorough than pre-use inspections, and shall be completed by a designated person or third party contractor.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All preventative maintenance inspections must meet the manufacturer’s specifications.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Failures which happen frequently shall be investigated and changes made if necessary to the system of work, operator training and/or the maintenance schedule.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Vehicles with failures shall not be driven and shall be separated and tagged until repair is performed.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Vehicle Immobilization<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All vehicles, whether road-going or specialist workplace vehicles, shall have suitable brakes both for general service and for parking. Brakes must be used properly to immobilize the vehicle whenever there is a risk of it running away.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Trailers shall always have the parking brake applied before uncoupling or coupling. Emergency brakes must never be relied upon.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Wheel chocks shall be used at all times when the vehicle is parked, or during loading or unloading. Information on chocking must be provided with the vehicle operating instructions.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Privately Owned Vehicles<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Private vehicles (such as employees’ cars) brought on site shall be restricted to clearly marked parking areas away from main traffic routes and dangerous areas, enforcing speed limits, and requiring visiting drivers to report to a security office or visitor entrance.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Operating Procedures<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">General Practices<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Drivers shall be trained to ensure that they are aware of correct operating procedures which must include:
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Loading and unloading.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Securing loads.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Uncoupling from and coupling up to trailers.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Licensing requirements.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Authorization process for using Space vehicles.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Training<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Training needs shall depend on an individual’s previous experience and the type of work they will be doing. The risk assessment may help determine the level and amount of training needed for each task, but an ongoing program of training and refresher training for all workers driving vehicles must be available to ensure continued competence in a changing workplace.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Training will often need to cover:
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">General information about the job (e.g., route layouts, or how to report risks or incidents); 
                        </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Training and/or checks to ensure that drivers can work safely, including making sure they know how to operate the vehicle safely, and information about particular dangers, speed limits, parking and loading areas and procedures, removing spills, etc.; 
                        </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">How supervision arrangements, including disciplinary measures for health and safety breaches, will be applied.
                        </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Training records shall be maintained for each employee who receives vehicle training.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Deliveries, Loading/Unloading<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Where possible, the side of the vehicle with easiest access to the workplace shall be presented.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">An authorized signaler (banksman) with appropriate high-visibility equipment shall be considered when reversing to a dock, etc.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">It shall be noted that signalers (banksmen) may have no legal authority to stop traffic on the public highway. When maneuvering on public roads, public traffic and pedestrians have priority.  Cones or barriers must only be used on a public road following discussions with local authority.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">If using lift trucks, drivers shall be aware of increased risk of overturn from driving over curbs (kerbs) or over road cambers, and must be aware of the correct driving procedures for these conditions.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">If articulated vehicles are being coupled or uncoupled, drivers shall be assessed on how to park them. Drivers must understand the correct use of parking and hand brakes, and use them when necessary.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">If possible, a site plan shall be provided including parking, location of reception, route through the site, location of unloading areas, driver waiting areas, and written information on procedures for visiting drivers (e.g. wearing high-visibility vests, prohibitions or special conditions for reversing such as using a signaler).</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Employees shall be instructed to report any vehicle incidents, near misses or other environmental, health and safety concerns during delivery, loading/unloading to their first line supervisor.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All relevant staff shall be trained and knowledgeable in managing a load that has shifted in transit.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A designated employee shall be present during the unloading process and may assist with unloading, if approved. They shall have the authority to refuse or halt unloading if there are environmental, health or safety problems, and must be confident that a decision to refuse delivery will be supported by management.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Loading and unloading areas shall be:
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Clear of other traffic, pedestrians and people not involved in loading or unloading.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Clear of overhead cables, pipes, or other dangerous obstructions.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Level, to maintain stability, trailers should be parked on firm level ground.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Loads shall:
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Be spread as evenly as possible during both loading and unloading.
                        <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Uneven loads can make the vehicle or trailer unstable. </li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Uneven loads can make the vehicle or trailer unstable. 
                        <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">A counterbalance will be needed at the back of the trailer if the unit is not attached.</li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Not be loaded or unloaded until vehicles and trailers have their brakes applied and all stabilizers properly positioned. </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Vehicles shall be labeled with maximum load capacities and never be overloaded.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The floor or deck of the loading area shall be checked before loading to make sure it is safe. Look out for debris, broken boarding, etc.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Loads shall be suitably packaged. When pallets are used, the loader must check that:
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">They are in good condition; 
                        </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Loads are properly secured to them; </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Loads are safe on the vehicle. </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Before unloading, checks shall be made to ensure that loads have not shifted during transit, and are not likely to move or fall when restraints are removed.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Reversing <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Where reversing is unavoidable:
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Reversing areas shall be planned out, clearly marked, and visible to drivers and anyone else in the area. </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">People and employees who do not need to be in reversing areas shall be kept clear. </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Vehicle reversing alarms shall be fitted. Alarms must be kept in working order and must be loud and distinct enough to be heard above background noise. </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">In some circumstances, (e.g. where a reversing alarm might not be easy to hear), visible systems such as flashing warning beacons or lights shall be used. </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Physical stops, such as barriers or buffers at loading bays shall be used. Buffers must be highly visible and sensibly positioned. </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Lateral lines on the floor may help the driver position the vehicle accurately. Where vehicles reverse up to structures or edges, barriers or wheel stops shall be used to warn drivers that they need to stop. </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Signalers (Banksmen)<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A signaler (banksman) may be used to keep the reversing area free of pedestrians and to guide drivers.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Before using a signaler, the site shall assess the risks banksmen will be exposed to, and take precautions to protect them.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Only properly trained signalers shall be used.
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Any employee or contractor (e.g., drivers) who engages in reversing activities shall be properly trained.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">If a driver loses sight of the signaler they shall stop the vehicle immediately.
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Only one signaler shall be used at a time per vehicle.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A clear, agreed upon system of signaling shall be utilized between the reversing driver and the signaler.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The signaler shall stand in a safe position from which to guide the reversing vehicle without being in its way.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The signaler shall wear very visible clothing.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Parking<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Vehicles shall be parked in a dedicated parking area.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Pedestrian areas and walkways shall be clearly marked, kept in good repair and (as far as possible) segregated from vehicle routes.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Parking areas shall be level, firm, well lit, well drained and clearly marked. Where vehicles have to be parked on a slope, they must have their parking brakes applied, be left in gear (where safe to do so) and wheel chocks must be used where appropriate.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Drivers shall never leave their vehicle without ensuring that the vehicle and its trailer are securely braked, the engine is stopped, the starter key removed, and any mounted equipment lowered to the ground.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Trailer parking brakes shall be used. Signs, instructions, or any other measures must be used to make sure drivers brake their trailers properly.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">On large goods vehicles, trailer emergency brakes shall never be relied on in place of the parking brakes. Tractor unit brakes are not designed to make trailers safe.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">If vehicles are left parked, the keys shall be left in a secure place.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Coupling and Uncoupling<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Space sites and the Space logistic providers shall ensure that the site operations ensure areas where vehicles are coupled and uncoupled are well lit (by natural or artificial light), firm, and level. Vehicle stops, handholds and lighting (e.g. at the cab rear) must be provided and used where appropriate. Drivers must be properly instructed in coupling procedures and safety.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Where vehicles must be ‘split coupled’ or ‘close coupled’ because of lack of room between the trailer and tractor unit, the trailer parking brake shall be properly applied before coupling or uncoupling.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">When uncoupling, drivers shall normally follow the coupling procedure in reverse. Drivers must make sure that the ground is hard standing (i.e., firm enough to hold the trailer and its legs), and that the cab brakes are applied before getting out.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
