<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="c37838DE-BDF3-11F0-1468-09173F13E4C5"
         xml:lang="en-us"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Coolant Information</title>
      <prolog>
            <author>Suchitra</author>
            <critdates>
                  <created date="2025-11-14T14:00:00+05:30"/>
                  <revised modified="2025-11-14T14:00:00+05:30"/>
            </critdates>
            <metadata>
                  <audience type="role" otherprops="maintenance-personnel,service-technicians,environmental-compliance-officers,industrial-engineers,safety-compliance-officers"/>
                  <keywords>
                        <!-- Product layer -->
                        <indexterm>metr-time-cd100120140160s</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>coolant</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>coolant-specification</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>antifreeze-mixture</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>coolant-system</indexterm>
                        <!-- Process layer -->
                        <indexterm>coolant-maintenance</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>fill-and-top-up-procedure</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>coolant-testing</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>contamination-checks</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>disposal-procedure</indexterm>
                        <!-- Context layer -->
                        <indexterm>environmental-compliance</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>workshop-procedures</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>fleet-maintenance</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>temperature-management</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>industrial-safety</indexterm>
                  </keywords>
                  <prodinfo>
                        <prodname>metR-Time-CD100120140160S</prodname>
                        <platform>web</platform>
                  </prodinfo>
                  <othermeta name="title" content="Coolant Information"/>
                  <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Details on approved coolant types, fill ratios, testing, contamination checks, and environmentally safe disposal."/>
                  <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
                  <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
                  <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
                  <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
                  <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
                  <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
                  <othermeta name="entities" content="coolant;antifreeze;mix-ratio;test-strip;filter;disposal-container"/>
                  <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:material-handling;usecase:fluid-management;industry:heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
                  <othermeta name="tags" content="coolant,fluid-specs,testing,disposal,environmental"/>
                  <othermeta name="usecase" content="guidance-for-selection-testing-and-disposal-of-coolant"/>
            </metadata>
      </prolog>
   <conbody>
      <note type="warning" class="- topic/note ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">The following information is generic and valid for lift trucks.</p>
      </note>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Engine operating temperatures have increased to improve engine
efficiency. This means proper cooling system maintenance is
especially important. Overheating, overcooling, pitting, cavitation
erosion, cracked heads, piston seizures, and plugged radiators are
classic cooling system failures. In fact, coolant is as important
as the quality of fuel and lubricating oil.</p>
      <note id="note_mjc_rfz_5gc" type="notice" class="- topic/note ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">Time recommends that the coolant mixture contain a minimum of 30%
                                antifreeze or equivalent.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Never add coolant to an overheated engine, engine damage can result.
                                Allow the engine to cool first.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">All water is corrosive at engine operating temperature. The cooling
                                system should be protected with a 3 to 6% concentration of liquid
                                supplemental coolant additive at all times, regardless of the
                                concentration of antifreeze.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Excessive supplemental coolant additive greater than the recommended 6%,
                                together with concentrations of antifreeze greater than 65% can
                                cause deposits to form and can result in radiator tube blockage,
                                overheating, and/or water pump seal damage.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">If the machine is to be stored in, or shipped to, an area with freezing
                                temperatures, the cooling system must be protected to the lowest
                                expected outside (ambient) temperature.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">The engine cooling system is normally protected to -28°C(-20°F) with
                                antifreeze, when shipped from the factory unless special
                                requirements are defined.</p>
      </note>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Check the specific gravity of the coolant solution frequently in
cold weather to ensure adequate protection.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Clean the cooling system if it is contaminated, the engine
overheats or foaming is observed in the radiator.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Old coolant should be drained, the system cleaned and new
coolant added every 2000 service hours or yearly.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Refer to topic, “Cooling System - Clean, Change” in
Every 2000 Service Hours or Yearly section.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Filling at over 20 liters (5 U.S. gallons) per minute can cause
air pockets in the cooling system.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">After draining and refilling the cooling system, operate the
engine with the radiator cap removed until the coolant reaches
normal operating temperature and the coolant level stabilises. Add
coolant as necessary to fill the system to the proper level.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Never operate without a thermostat in the cooling system.
Cooling system problems can arise without a thermostat.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
