<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="c37B90CB-BDF3-11F0-1202-09173F13E4C5"
         xml:lang="en-us"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Fatigue</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-11-14T14:34:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-14T14:34:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="machine-operators,maintenance-personnel,industrial-engineers,reliability-engineers,safety-compliance-officers,management"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-time-cd100120140160s</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lift-truck-forks</indexterm>
            <indexterm>fork-heel</indexterm>
            <indexterm>fork-mount</indexterm>
            <indexterm>structural-components</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>fatigue-inspection</indexterm>
            <indexterm>visual-crack-detection</indexterm>
            <indexterm>preventive-maintenance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>load-cycle-analysis</indexterm>
            <indexterm>repair-and-replace-procedure</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>material-handling-equipment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>heavy-machinery-plant</indexterm>
            <indexterm>fleet-maintenance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operational-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>wear-and-tear-factors</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-Time-CD100120140160S</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Fatigue"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Explains fatigue failure mechanisms for forks and related components and how to detect and address cracks caused by cyclic loading."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="forks;fork-heel;fork-mount;structural-component;welds;base-metal"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:material-handling;usecase:fatigue-inspection;industry:heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="fatigue,crack-detection,inspection,maintenance,structural-integrity"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="describe fatigue mechanisms and inspection procedures"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <conbody>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Parts which are subjected to repeated or fluctuating loads can
fail after a large number of loading cycles even though the maximum
stress was below the static strength of the part.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">The first sign of a fatigue failure is usually a crack which
starts in an area of high stress concentration. This is usually in
the heel section or on the fork mounting.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">As the crack progresses under repetitive load cycling, the load
bearing cross section of the remaining metal is decreased in size
until it becomes insufficient to support the load and complete
failure occurs.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Fatigue failure is the most common mode of fork failure. It is
also one which can be anticipated and prevented by recognizing the
conditions which lead up to the failure and by removing the fork
service prior to failing.</p>
      <ul class="- topic/ul ">
         <li class="- topic/li ">Repetitive Overloading<p class="- topic/p ">Repetitive cycling of loads which exceeds the fatigue strength
                of the material can lead to fatigue failure. The overload could be
                caused by loads in excess of the rated fork capacity and by use of
                the forks tips as pry bars. Also, by handling loads in a manner
                which causes the fork tips to spread and the forks to twist
                laterally about their mountings.</p>
         </li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">Wear<p class="- topic/p ">Forks are constantly subjected to abrasion as they slide on
                floors and loads. The thickness of the fork blade is gradually
                reduced to the point where it may not be capable of handling the
                load for which it was designed.</p>
         </li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">Stress Risers<p class="- topic/p ">Scratches, nicks and corrosion are points of high stress
                concentration where cracks can develop. These cracks can progress
                under repetitive loading in a typical mode of fatigue failure.</p>
         </li>
      </ul>
   </conbody>
</concept>
