<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="c37BB8FE-BDF3-11F0-1838-09173F13E4C5"
         xml:lang="en-us"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Fire or Explosion Prevention</title>
      <prolog>
            <author>Suchitra</author>
            <critdates>
                  <created date="2025-11-14T14:34:00+05:30"/>
                  <revised modified="2025-11-14T14:34:00+05:30"/>
            </critdates>
            <metadata>
                  <audience type="role" otherprops="safety-compliance-officers,maintenance-personnel,operators,engineering-management,facility-personnel"/>
                  <keywords>
                        <!-- Product layer -->
                        <indexterm>metr-time-cd100120140160s</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>fuel-system</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>electrical-system</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>battery-and-hydraulics</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>fuel-cap-and-vent</indexterm>
                        <!-- Process layer -->
                        <indexterm>fuel-handling-procedure</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>spill-control</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>hot-work-permit</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>combustible-materials-control</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>inspection-records</indexterm>
                        <!-- Context layer -->
                        <indexterm>warehouse-environment</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>industrial-plant-safety</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>fleet-mro</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>hazardous-area-management</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>operational-risk-reduction</indexterm>
                  </keywords>
                  <prodinfo>
                        <prodname>metR-Time-CD100120140160S</prodname>
                        <platform>web</platform>
                  </prodinfo>
                  <othermeta name="title" content="Fire or Explosion Prevention"/>
                  <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Guidance on preventing fire or explosion on lift trucks including fuel handling, hot work and inspection record keeping."/>
                  <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
                  <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
                  <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
                  <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
                  <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
                  <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
                  <othermeta name="entities" content="fuel-system;fuel-cap;vent;electrical-wiring;exhaust;hot-work-equipment"/>
                  <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:material-handling;usecase:fire-explosion-prevention;industry:heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
                  <othermeta name="tags" content="fire-prevention,fuel-handling,hot-work,inspection,spillage"/>
                  <othermeta name="usecase" content="prevent fires and explosions through procedures and inspections"/>
            </metadata>
      </prolog>
   <conbody>
      <p class="- topic/p ">All fuels, most lubricants and some coolant mixtures are
flammable.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Fuel leaked or spilled onto hot surfaces or electrical
components can cause a fire.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Do not smoke while refueling or in a refueling area.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Do not smoke in areas where batteries are charged, or where
flammable materials are stored.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Batteries in series can be located in separate compartments.
When using jumper cables always connect positive(+) cable to
positive(+) terminal of battery connected to starter solenoid and
negative(-) cable from external source to starter negative(-)
terminal.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">(If not equipped with starter negative(-) terminal, connect to
engine block.)</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">See the Operation Section of this manual for specific starting
instructions.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Clean and tighten all electrical connections. Check daily for
loose or frayed electrical wires. Have all loose or frayed
electrical wires tightened, repaired or replaced before operating
the lift truck.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Keep all fuels and lubricants stored in properly marked
containers and away from all unauthorised persons.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Store all oily rags or other flammable material in a protective
container, in a safe place.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Do not weld or flame cut on pipes or tubes that contain
flammable fluids. Clean them thoroughly with nonflammable solvent
before welding or flame cutting on them.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Remove all flammable materials such as fuel, oil and other
debris before they accumulate on the lift truck.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Do not expose the lift truck to flames, burning brush, etc., if
at all possible.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Shields, which protect hot exhaust components from oil or fuel
spray in the event of a line, tube or seal failure, must be
installed correctly.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Do not operate in areas where explosive gases exist or are
suspected.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
