<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="c37D2764-BDF3-11F0-1656-09173F13E4C5"
         xml:lang="en-us"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Handling precautions for USB device</title>
      <prolog>
            <author>Suchitra</author>
            <critdates>
                  <created date="2025-11-14+05:30"/>
                  <revised modified="2025-11-14+05:30"/>
            </critdates>
            <metadata>
                  <audience type="role" otherprops="maintenance-personnel,industrial-engineers,it-support,operators,management"/>
                  <keywords>
                        <!-- product layer -->
                        <indexterm>metr-time-cd100120140160s</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>usb-device</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>data-logger</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>firmware-usb</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>usb-interface</indexterm>
                        <!-- process layer -->
                        <indexterm>connect-and-disconnect-procedure</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>electrostatic-discharge-protection</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>safe-handling-of-usb</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>firmware-transfer-procedure</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>data-backup-and-validation</indexterm>
                        <!-- context layer -->
                        <indexterm>onboard-data-management</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>service-and-maintenance</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>field-updates</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>operator-interactions</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>it-and-maintenance-collaboration</indexterm>
                  </keywords>
                  <prodinfo>
                        <prodname>metR-Time-CD100120140160S</prodname>
                        <platform>web</platform>
                  </prodinfo>
                  <othermeta name="title" content="Handling precautions for USB device"/>
                  <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Precautions and recommended procedures for safe handling and use of the external USB device"/>
                  <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
                  <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
                  <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
                  <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
                  <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
                  <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
                  <othermeta name="entities" content="usb-device;usb-connector;data-logger;firmware-file;connector-cover"/>
                  <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:maintenance-and-it;usecase:data-transfer-and-hardware-handling;industry:heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
                  <othermeta name="tags" content="usb,firmware,esd,handling-procedure,data-integrity"/>
                  <othermeta name="usecase" content="protect and handle the USB device for safe data transfer and firmware updates"/>
            </metadata>
      </prolog>
   <conbody>
      <p class="- topic/p ">When using the external USB device, make sure to keep the device
disconnected and connect only some time after turning on the
vehicle ignition. The USB device may be damaged if the USB device
already connected when the ignition is turned on. (USB device is
not an electronic automotive component).</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Some USB devices may not operate properly because of
compatibility issues. Check that the external device is supported
by the device before stating use.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">The device will only recognize USB devices formatted in FAT
16/32.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">When formatting the external USB device, the device may not
properly recognize a Byte/Sector selection other than 512 Bytes or
2,048 Bytes.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Avoid the contact of bodily parts and foreign substances with
the USB connector.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Repeatedly connecting/disconnecting the USB in a short period of
time may cause damage to the device.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">When disconnecting the USB, an abnormal sound may occur
occasionally.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Abruptly disconnecting the external USB device while the USB is
operating may cause the device to be damaged or function
abnormally. Make sure to disconnect the USB device only after the
audio power is turned off or when the audio is operating in a
different mode.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">The amount of time required to recognize the external USB device
may differ depending on the type, size, or file formats stored on
the USB. Such differences in the required time are not indications
of malfunction. Please wait the period of time required to
recognize the device.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">The device support only USB devices used to play music
files.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Do not use the USB I/F to charge batteries or USB accessories
which generate heat. Such acts may lead to deteriorated performance
or damage to the device</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">The device may not recognize the USB device if separately
purchased USB hubs and extension cables are being used.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">In the case of high capacity USB devices, there are instances
where the logical drives are partitioned for user convenience. In
this case, it will only be possible to play the USB music in the
top level drive. When using partitioned drives, save the songs you
wish to play on the device only in the top-Ievel logical drive. In
addition, certain USB devices are configured with a separate drive
used to install application programs and it may not be possible to
play songs from such drives for the reasons as described above.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">The device may not support normal operation when using formats
such as HDD Type, CF, or SD Memory.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">The device will not support files locked by DRM (Digital Rights
Management).</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
