<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="c37DC212-BDF3-11F0-6645-09173F13E4C5"
         xml:lang="en-us"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Important Safety Information</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-11-14+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-14+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="machine-operators,maintenance-personnel,safety-and-compliance-officers,industrial-engineers,management"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-time-cd100120140160s</indexterm>
            <indexterm>powered-lift-truck</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operator-controls</indexterm>
            <indexterm>safety-decals</indexterm>
            <indexterm>protective-guards</indexterm>
            <!-- process layer -->
            <indexterm>read-and-follow-safety-instructions</indexterm>
            <indexterm>wear-personal-protective-equipment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>pre-operation-inspection</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lockout-tagout-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>report-safety-defects</indexterm>
            <!-- context layer -->
            <indexterm>workplace-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operator-training</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>fleet-management-and-mro</indexterm>
            <indexterm>industrial-plant-environment</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-Time-CD100120140160S</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Important safety information"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Key safety warnings and instructions to prevent accidents during operation and maintenance"/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="safety-decals;operator-controls;protective-guards;training-material;incident-reporting"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:safety-and-compliance;usecase:safety-information;industry:heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="warnings,precautions,training,incident-prevention"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="convey required safety information for operators and maintenance staff"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <conbody>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Most accidents involving product operation, maintenance and
repair are caused by failure to observe basic safety rules or
precautions. An accident can often be avoided by recognizing
potentially hazardous situations before an accident occurs. A
person must be alert to potential hazards, and use common sense.
Persons must also have the necessary training, skills and tools
before attempting to perform these functions.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Improper operation, lubrication, maintenance or repair of this
product can be dangerous and could result in injury or death.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Do not operate or perform any lubrication, maintenance or repair
on this product, until you have read and understood the operation,
lubrication, maintenance and repair information.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Safety precautions and warnings are provided in this manual and
on the product. If these hazard warnings are not heeded, bodily
injury or death could occur to you or other persons.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">The hazards are identified by the “Safety Alert
Symbol” and followed by a “Signal Word” such as
“WARNING” as shown below.</p>
      <note type="warning" class="- topic/note ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">The meaning of this safety alert symbol is as follows:</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Attention! Become Alert! Your Safety is Involved.</b>
         </p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">The message that appears under the warning, explaining the hazard, can be
                        either written or pictorially presented.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Operations that may cause product damage are identified by NOTICE labels on the
                        product and in this publication.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Time cannot anticipate every possible circumstance that might involve a
                        potential hazard, and common sense is always required. The warnings in this
                        publication and on the product are therefore not all inclusive. Before any
                        tool, procedure, work method or operating technique not specifically
                        recommended by Time is used, you must be sure that it is safe for you and
                        others. You should also ensure that the product will not be damaged or made
                        unsafe by the operation, lubrication, maintenance or repair procedures you
                        choose.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">The information, specifications, and illustration in this publication are on
                        the basis of information available at the time it was written. The
                        specifications, torques, pressures, measurements, adjustments,
                        illustrations, and other items can change at any time. These changes can
                        affect the service given to the product. Obtain the complete and most
                        current information before starting any job. Time branchs have the most
                        current information available.</p>
      </note>
   </conbody>
</concept>
