<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="c37E005B-BDF3-11F0-3070-09173F13E4C5"
         xml:lang="en-us"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Inspection, Maintenance and Repair of
Lift Truck Forks</title>
      <prolog>
            <author>Suchitra</author>
            <critdates>
                  <created date="2025-11-14T18:00:00+05:30"/>
                  <revised modified="2025-11-14T18:00:00+05:30"/>
            </critdates>
            <metadata>
                  <audience type="role" otherprops="maintenance-personnel,welding-technicians,inspection-officers,reliability-engineers,safety-compliance-officers"/>
                  <keywords>
                        <indexterm>metr-time-cd100120140160s</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>lift-truck-forks</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>fork-repair-kit</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>weld-repair</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>fork-latch</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>inspection</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>maintenance</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>repair</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>fork-alignment</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>torque-check</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>workshop</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>fleet-management</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>mro-operations</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>structural-repair</indexterm>
                        <indexterm>safety-compliance</indexterm>
                  </keywords>
                  <prodinfo>
                        <prodname>metR-Time-CD100120140160S</prodname>
                        <platform>web</platform>
                  </prodinfo>
                  <othermeta name="title" content="inspection maintenance and repair of lift truck forks"/>
                  <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="inspection criteria maintenance tasks and repair guidance for lift truck forks including alignment and weld repair."/>
                  <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
                  <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
                  <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
                  <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
                  <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
                  <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
                  <othermeta name="entities" content="forks;fork-repair-kit;welding-materials;alignment-templates;torque-tools"/>
                  <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:structural-maintenance;usecase:inspection-and-repair;industry:heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
                  <othermeta name="tags" content="fork-inspection,repair,welding,alignment,maintenance"/>
                  <othermeta name="usecase" content="inspection-maintenance-and-structural-repair"/>
            </metadata>
      </prolog>
   <conbody>
      <p class="- topic/p ">The following section gives practical guidelines for inspection,
maintenance and repair of lift truck forks. It also provides
general information on the design and application of forks and the
common cause of fork failures.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Lift truck forks can be dangerously weakened by improper repair
or modification. They can also be damaged by the cumulative effects
of age, abrasion, corrosion, overloading and misuse.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">A fork failure during use can cause damage to the equipment and
the load. A fork failure can also cause serious injury.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">A good fork inspection and maintenance program along with the
proper application can be very effective in preventing sudden
failures on the job.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Repairs and modifications should be done only by the fork
manufacturer or a qualified technician who knows the material used
and the required welding and heat treatment process.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Users should evaluate the economics of returning the forks to
the manufacturer for repairs or purchasing new forks. This will
vary depending on many factors including the size and type of
fork.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Forks should be properly sized to the weight and length of the
loads, and to the size of the machine on which they are used. The
general practice is to use a fork size such that the combined rated
capacity of the number of forks used is equal to or greater than
the “Standard(or rated) Capacity” of the lift
truck.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">The individual load rating, in most cases, will be stamped on
the fork in a readily visible area. This is generally on the top or
side of the fork shank.</p>
      <ul class="- topic/ul ">
         <li class="- topic/li ">A fork rated at 1500 pounds at 24 inch load centre will be
stamped 1500@24.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">A fork rated at 2000 kg at 600 mm load centre will be stamped
2000@600.</li>
      </ul>
      <p class="- topic/p ">The manufacturer identification and year and date of manufacture
are also usually shown.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Some countries have standards or regulations which apply
specifically to the inspection and repair of forks.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Users may also refer to the International Organization For
Standardization-ISO Technical Report 5057-Inspection and Repair of
Fork Arms and ISO Standard 2330-Fork Arms-Technical Characteristics
and Testing.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">While there are no specific standards or regulations in the
United States, users should be familiar with the requirements for
inspection and maintenance of lift trucks as provided by the 29
Code Federal Register 1910.178 Powered Industrial Truck, and
ANSI/ASME Safety Standard(s) B56.1 as applicable to the type of
machine(s) in use.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
