<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="c383AFCA-BDF3-11F0-6779-09173F13E4C5"
         xml:lang="en-us"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Safety</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-11-17T09:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-17T09:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="machine-operator,maintenance-personnel,industrial-engineer,safety-and-compliance-officer,fleet-manager"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-time-cd100120140160s</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lift-truck</indexterm>
            <indexterm>seat-switch-system</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operator-seat</indexterm>
            <indexterm>parking-brake</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>seat-leave-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>apply-parking-brake</indexterm>
            <indexterm>transmission-disengage</indexterm>
            <indexterm>seat-switch-replacement</indexterm>
            <indexterm>pre-operation-safety-check</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>operator-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>warehouse-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-and-mro</indexterm>
            <indexterm>eu-machinery-directive-2006-42-ec</indexterm>
            <indexterm>industrial-vehicle-compliance</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-Time-CD100120140160S</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Safety and seat switch system"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Safety rules and seat switch system operation to prevent unintended vehicle movement when operator leaves the seat."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="seat switch;operator seat;transmission;directional lever;parking brake"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:industrial-vehicle-safety;usecase:operation-and-maintenance;industry:heavy-machinery-and-industrial-equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="safety,seat-switch,parking-brake,operator-procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="prevent unintended movement on operator exit"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <conbody>
      <p class="- topic/p ">The safety rules and regulations in this section are
representative of some, but not all rules and regulations that
apply to lift trucks. Rules and regulations are paraphrased without
representation that they have been reproduced verbatim.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Please refer to 29 CFR 1910.178 in the Code of Federal
Regulations, the National Fire Protection Association No. 505
(NFPA), American National Standards Institute/Industrial Truck
Standards Development Foundation, ANSI/ITSDF B56.1 Safety Standard
for Low lift and High Lift Trucks, UL 558 Fire Safety Standard for
Internal Combustion Engine-Powered Industrial Trucks and subsequent
revisions for a complete list of rules and regulations as to the
safe operation of powered industrial lift trucks. Since regulations
vary from country to country outside of U.S.A., operate this lift
truck in accordance with local regulations.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Time lift trucks are manufactured in accordance with the
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) No. 505 and the
American National Standards Institute, Inc. / Industrial Truck
Standards Development Foundation (ANSI/ITSDF) B56.1, Safety
Standard for Low and High Lift Trucks and, for European models,
according to the regulations and standards laid down in EU
Machinery Directive 2006/42/EC and EMC directive 2014/30/EU.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">The most effective method of reducing the risk of serious injury
or death to you or others is for you to know how to properly
operate this lift truck, to be alert and to avoid actions or
conditions that could cause accidents.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Do not operate a lift truck if it is in need of maintenance,
repair or appears to be unsafe in any way. Report all unsafe
conditions immediately to your supervisor, then contact your
authorised lift truck branch. Do not attempt any adjustments or
repairs unless trained and authorised to do so.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
