<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="c3851530-BDF3-11F0-2146-09173F13E4C5"
         xml:lang="en-us"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Starting with Jumper Cables</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-11-17T09:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-17T09:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="machine-operators,maintenance-personnel,safety-and-compliance-officers,workshop-technicians"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-time-cd100120140160s</indexterm>
            <indexterm>battery-system</indexterm>
            <indexterm>jumper-cables</indexterm>
            <indexterm>auxiliary-power-source</indexterm>
            <indexterm>electrical-connectors</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>jump-start-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>battery-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>polarity-check</indexterm>
            <indexterm>voltage-verification</indexterm>
            <indexterm>isolation-procedure</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>cold-start-scenarios</indexterm>
            <indexterm>field-recovery</indexterm>
            <indexterm>fleet-maintenance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>mro-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>safety-compliance-training</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-Time-CD100120140160S</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Starting with jumper cables"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Safe jump start procedure using external vehicle or auxiliary power to start a discharged battery"/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="battery;jumper cables;auxiliary vehicle;battery clamps;battery-isolator"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:industrial-manufacturing;usecase:battery-recovery;industry:heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="jump start,battery recovery,polarity check,safety instructions"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="battery jump start and safety procedure"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <conbody>
      <note type="warning" class="- topic/note ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">Batteries give off flammable fumes that can explode.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Prevent sparks near the batteries. They could cause vapors to explode. Do not allow jump
          cable ends to contact each other or the lift truck. Do not smoke when checking battery
          electrolyte levels.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Electrolyte is an acid and can cause personal injury if it contacts skin or eyes.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Always wear eye protection when starting a lift truck with jump cables.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Improper jump procedures can cause an explosion resulting in personal injury.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Always connect battery positive (+) to battery positive (+) and battery negative (-) to
          be battery negative (-).</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Jump only with a battery source and with the same voltage as the stalled lift
          truck.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Turn off all lights and accessories on the stalled lift truck. Otherwise, they will
          operate when the jump source is connected.</p>
      </note>
      <note id="note_egn_ltt_5gc" type="notice" class="- topic/note ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">When starting from another machine, make sure the machines do not touch. This could prevent
        damage to engine bearings and electrical circuits.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Turn on (close) the disconnect switch prior to the boost connection to prevent damage to
        electrical components on the stalled machine.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Severely discharged maintenance free batteries might not fully recharge by the alternator
        alone after jump starting.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">The batteries must be charged to the proper voltage by the battery charger.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Many batteries thought to be unusable, are still rechargeable.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">This machine has a 24 volt starting system. Use only equal voltage for jump starting. Use
        of a welder or higher voltage equipment will damage the electrical system.</p>
      </note>
   </conbody>
</concept>
