<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      id="t39217CB-BDF3-11F0-1369-09173F13E4C5"
      xml:lang="en-us"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      class="- topic/topic task/task ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Towing Information</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-11-15T14:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-15T14:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="maintenance-personnel,operator-supervisors,industrial-engineers,reliability-engineers,safety-and-compliance-officers"/>
         <keywords>
            <indexterm>metr-time-cd100120140160s</indexterm>
            <indexterm>tow-eyes</indexterm>
            <indexterm>towing-hitch</indexterm>
            <indexterm>transmission</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hydraulic-system</indexterm>
            <indexterm>towing-information</indexterm>
            <indexterm>safely-tow-disabled-unit</indexterm>
            <indexterm>towing-speed-limits</indexterm>
            <indexterm>axle-load-consideration</indexterm>
            <indexterm>brake-lock-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>recovery-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>fleet-assist</indexterm>
            <indexterm>service-transport</indexterm>
            <indexterm>worksite-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>regulatory-compliance</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-Time-CD100120140160S</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Towing Information"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Guidance for towing a disabled lift truck including recommended towing methods, speed and precautions to avoid damage or unsafe conditions."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="tow-eye;hitch;transmission;brakes;tow-vehicle"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:recovery-and-transport;usecase:towing-and-recovery;industry:heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="towing,recovery,safety,transport,tow-eye"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="procedures to safely tow or recover a disabled unit without causing damage"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <taskbody>
      <context class="- topic/section task/context ">
         <note type="warning" class="- topic/note ">
            <p class="- topic/p ">Personal injury or death could result when towing a disabled lift truck
                                incorrectly.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">Block the lift truck wheels to prevent movement before releasing the
                                brakes. The lift truck can roll free if it is not blocked.</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">Follow the recommendations below, to properly perform the towing
                                procedure.</p>
         </note>
         <note type="warning" class="- topic/note ">
            <p class="- topic/p ">Do not tow the machine at a speed over 2km/ h(1.2mph) and do not tow the
                                machine farther than 10km(6miles).</p>
            <p class="- topic/p ">This will prevent damage to the transmission that would result from lack
                                of lubrication.</p>
         </note>
         <p class="- topic/p ">These towing instructions are for moving a disabled lift truck a
short distance, at low speed, no faster than 2 km/h (1.2 mph), to a
convenient location for repair. These instructions are for
emergencies only. Always transport the lift truck if long distance
moving is required.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Shield must be provided on the towing lift truck to protect the
operator if the tow line or bar should break.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Do not allow riders on the lift truck being towed unless the
operator can control the steering and/or braking.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Before towing, make sure the tow line or bar is in good
condition and has enough strength for the towing situation
involved. Use a towing line or bar with a strength of at least 1.5
times the gross weight of the towing lift truck for a disabled lift
truck stuck in the mud or when towing on a grade.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Keep the tow line angle to a minimum. Do not exceed a 30掳
angle from the straight ahead position. Connect the tow line as low
as possible on the lift truck that is being towed.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Quick lift truck movement could overload the tow line or bar and
cause it to break. Gradual and smooth lift truck movement will work
better.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Normally, the towing lift truck should be as large as the
disabled lift truck. Satisfy yourself that the towing lift truck
has enough brake capacity, weight and power, to control both lift
trucks for the grade and the distance involved.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">To provide sufficient control and braking when moving a disabled
lift truck downhill, a larger towing lift truck or additional lift
trucks connected to the rear could be required. This will prevent
uncontrolled rolling. The different situation requirements cannot
be given as minimal towing lift truck capacity is required on
smooth level surfaces to maximum on inclines or poor surface
conditions.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Consult your Time Lift Truck branch for towing a disabled lift
truck.</p>
      </context>
      <steps class="- topic/ol task/steps ">
         <step class="- topic/li task/step ">
            <cmd class="- topic/ph task/cmd ">Release the parking brake.  </cmd>
            <info class="- topic/itemgroup task/info ">
               <note id="note_tqc_hbz_5gc" type="notice" class="- topic/note ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Release the parking brake to prevent excessive wear and
                                                damage to the parking brake system.</p>
               </note>
            </info>
         </step>
         <step class="- topic/li task/step ">
            <cmd class="- topic/ph task/cmd ">Check that the service foot brake pedal is released.</cmd>
         </step>
         <step class="- topic/li task/step ">
            <cmd class="- topic/ph task/cmd ">Key switch is in the OFF position.</cmd>
         </step>
         <step class="- topic/li task/step ">
            <cmd class="- topic/ph task/cmd ">Direction control lever is in neutral.</cmd>
         </step>
         <step class="- topic/li task/step ">
            <cmd class="- topic/ph task/cmd ">Fasten the tow bar to the lift truck.</cmd>
         </step>
         <step class="- topic/li task/step ">
            <cmd class="- topic/ph task/cmd ">Remove the wheel blocks. Tow the lift truck slowly. Do not tow
                  any faster than 2 km/h (1.2 mph).</cmd>
            <info class="- topic/itemgroup task/info ">
               <note type="warning" class="- topic/note ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Be sure all necessary repairs and adjustments have been made before a
                                  lift truck that has been towed to a service area is put back into
                                  operation.</p>
               </note>
            </info>
         </step>
      </steps>
   </taskbody>
</task>
