<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1A9EED4-BB01-11F0-8402-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-11-06+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-06"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="operator,maintenance,safety-engineer"/>
         <keywords>
            <indexterm>metr-bat-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>personnel-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>shift-handover-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>role-assignment-process</indexterm>
            <indexterm>competency-check</indexterm>
            <indexterm>escalation-path</indexterm>
            <indexterm>supervisor-notification</indexterm>
            <indexterm>task-delegation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>record-keeping</indexterm>
            <indexterm>non-conformance-reporting</indexterm>
            <indexterm>glass-manufacturing</indexterm>
            <indexterm>process-control</indexterm>
            <indexterm>workplace-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>training-verification</indexterm>
            <indexterm>accountability-tracking</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-BAT-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Batch House Personnel Responsibilities — Procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Procedural steps for assigning roles, conducting shift handovers, competency checks, and escalation in the batch house."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="handover-form;competency-check;escalation-log;task-assignment;supervisor-note"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:glass-production;usecase:procedural-guidance;industry:glassmanufacturing"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="procedure,shift-handover,competency,escalation,roles"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="procedure"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Batch House operations shall be organized and staffed in a manner capable of protecting the health and safety of Batch House personnel, protecting the Batch House asset, supporting production needs, producing quality mixed batch output, and respecting environmental regulations.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The Plant Manager is accountable for implementing the Batch House specific organization for all Batch House personnel.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Batch House personnel shall be in compliance with all requirements defined in Procedure
               BAT-02-003 Batch House Environmental, Health and Safety. </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Batch House personnel shall perform work in the following areas including, but not limited to the following:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Raw material receiving</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Monitor batch and cullet quality (moisture testing)</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Raw material storage (silo measurement and inspection)</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Batch weighing</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Minors handling, storage, weighing and mixing</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Batch mixing</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Mixed batch delivery </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Day bin measurement and inspection</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Purchased Cullet Management</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">In-House Cullet Management</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Monitoring housekeeping and escalating issues</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">All Batch House personnel shall monitor and maintain the performance aspects of the Batch House operations including, but not limited to the following:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Raw material receiving<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Verify that each load of raw material delivered to the plant:
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Was ordered by the plant.
                        </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Is free of contamination.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Perform quality tests of each raw material as described in Procedure
                           RAW-02-002 Raw Material Inspection, Receiving and Control.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Take a representative sample of each material received and retain for the
                           time period specified in Procedure RAW-02-002 Raw Material Inspection,
                           Receiving and Control.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Raw material storage<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All silos/bunkers must be visibly and properly identified.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure that each load of raw material is unloaded in the correct silo / bunker.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure the use of raw materials with the First In, First Out (FIFO) philosophy where possible.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Batch weighing<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Control batch weights to meet batch formula specifications.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Validate scale calibration at the frequency specified in MSDR BAT-02-001
                           Batch House Scales Calibration and Validation Requirements.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Minors handling, storage, weighing and mixing<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Store minor raw materials in clean, safe, and designated area.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure the use of minor raw materials with the First In, First Out (FIFO) philosophy where possible.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Weigh and mix minor raw materials in a safe manner according to the batch recipes provided by Glass Science.
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Validate scale calibration at the frequency specified in MSDR BAT-02-001
                                 Batch House Scales Calibration and Validation Requirements.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Batch Mixing<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Visually inspect to ensure a homogeneous mix. </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Mixed Batch Delivery<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure mixed batch delivery to furnace with minimal segregation and loss.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Maintain enough mixed batch to satisfy all furnaces within the plant.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Purchased Cullet Management<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Verify that each load of cullet delivered to the plant:
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Was ordered by the plant.
                        </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure cullet complies with specifications defined in MSDR RAW-07-001
                                 Cullet Specification and Control.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure loads of cullet are separated and stored by type, color and supplier (if possible) in bunkers or silos designed for handling cullet. </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure the use of cullet with the First In, First Out (FIFO) philosophy where possible.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure cullet is stored in the proper silo.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure cullet is weighed to the batch recipe prescribed by Glass Science.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure cullet and mixed batch are combined and delivered to furnace with minimal segregation and loss. </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">In-House Cullet Management<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure equipment to recover rejected hot bottles, gobs, streamed glass and rejected cold containers are functioning correctly. This includes, but is not limited to:
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Conveyors, crushers, bins, fork-lifts, quench conveyors, metallic separation, etc.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure in-house cullet is separated by color and from external cullet.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure the use of cullet with the First In, First Out (FIFO) philosophy where possible.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure cullet is stored in the proper silo.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure in-house cullet is weighed to the batch recipe prescribed by Glass Science.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure mixed cullet and mixed batch are combined and delivered to furnace with minimal segregation and loss. </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Monitor and maintain a record of the raw materials received.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Track raw materials consumption, and inventories.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Based on timely inspections, notify maintenance of all necessary repairs.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Perform housekeeping and organizational duties for the batch house as defined in
                     Procedure BAT-02-004 Batch House Housekeeping.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Operate daily to accomplish the following requirements including, but not limited to:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Execute tasks promptly and focus on most critical aspects of the
                              operation.<ol id="ol_xkx_k3p_nzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Notify manager of tasks that require additional assistance or
                                 guidance.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Act if corrective actions are required to maintain stable
                                 operations.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Complete the required training as defined in Procedure BAT-02-010 Batch
                           House Personnel Training.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Escalate needs and improvement ideas to supervisor. </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Batch House personnel shall actively communicate conditions, operational parameters and needs of the batch house operation to the following individuals including, but not limited to:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Batch &amp; Furnace Manager</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Other Batch House personnel:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Activities related to prior shift
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Review previous shift data in the daily log book for reported problems.
                        </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Significant problems experienced.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Tasks specifically related to the beginning of the shift.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Batch House personnel shall be familiar with the Global Manufacturing Fundamentals as it relates to the batch and furnace area including, but not limited to:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Policies</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Procedures</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Work Instructions</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Training Materials and Videos</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Master Specification and Design Requirement (MSDR)</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Forms</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
