<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1E0A826-BB01-11F0-7293-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T15:47:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T15:47:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="machine-operators,maintenance-mro-staff,operations,plant-management,safety-compliance-officers"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-ehs-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>ladder-inspection-kit</indexterm>
            <indexterm>confined-space-equipment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lockout-tagout-equipment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>ppe-equipment</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>operational-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>inspection-checklist</indexterm>
            <indexterm>task-permit-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>incident-reporting-procedure</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>production-equipment-maintenance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>shop-floor-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>worker-safety-procedures</indexterm>
            <indexterm>shift-handover</indexterm>
            <indexterm>contractor-work-controls</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Operational and maintenance procedures with inspection checklists to ensure safe execution of plant tasks."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="inspection-checklist;maintenance-task;permit-to-work;ppe;toolbox-talk"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:ehs;usecase:operational-procedure;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="procedure,inspection,maintenance,safety,checklist"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="prescribe safe execution steps, inspections and maintenance tasks"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Care and Maintenance of All Ladders<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">General Condition Requirements<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ladders available for use shall be maintained in good condition at all times; the joint between the steps and side rails shall be tight, all hardware and fittings securely attached, and the moveable parts of mobile ladders shall operate freely without binding or undue play.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ladders with broken or missing steps, rungs, or cleats, broken side rails, or other faulty equipment shall not be used, nor shall repairs be made.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Steps, rungs, cleats, broken side rails and all other sections of the ladder shall be kept free of dirt, grease and oil.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Paint or other coatings shall not be applied to ladders that prevent defects from being visible.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Wooden ladders shall be taken out of service and replaced.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ladders shall be properly mounted or chained to prevent tipping hazards or tripping hazards when not in use.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Inspections and Tagging<ol id="ol_fnc_rs4_pzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All ladders shall be visually inspected to confirm they are in good
                           condition prior to each use. </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">On a semi-annual basis an inspection of all ladders shall be completed
                           using Form EHS-02-124-F001 Ladder Inspection Checklist, or equivalent.<ol id="ol_j13_ss4_pzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Work Instruction EHS-03-009 Ladder Inspection Checklist may be
                                 used to help complete the inspection of all ladders.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Each ladder shall be tagged to show the most recent inspection.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Form EHS-02-124-F002 Ladder Inventory, or equivalent, shall be completed or
                     updated anytime a ladder is added or removed from service.<ol id="ol_gfj_vs4_pzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">It is recommended to have a tracking or numbering system for all ladders
                           on the inventory list.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Ladders not meeting condition requirements shall be removed from service and
                     marked as one of the following: "Dangerous”, “Do Not Use”, or “Out of
                     Service”.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Portable Ladders<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Additional Care and Maintenance<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Non-slip "safety feet" on portable ladders shall be maintained in good condition to ensure proper performance.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">If a portable ladder tips over, check all rung-to-side-rail connections; check hardware connections; check rivets for shear.
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">If a metal portable ladder, inspect for side rail dents, bends, or excessively dented rungs.
                        </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">If a fiberglass portable ladder, inspect for splinters and cracks. </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Placement and Use of Portable Ladders<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A portable ladder shall, where possible, be used at such a pitch that the horizontal distance from the top support to the foot of the ladder is one-quarter of the working length (the length along the ladder between the bottom and the top support) of the ladder. 
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">i.e. For every four feet (1.2 m) up, the ladder needs to be one foot (30 cm) out (4:1 Rule).</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A ladder shall be so placed as to prevent slipping, or it shall be either lashed or held into position.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The ladder base section must be placed with a secure footing.  Ladders shall not be placed on boxes, barrels, or other unstable bases to obtain additional height.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The top of the ladder must be placed with the two rails supported, unless equipped with a single support attachment.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">On two-section extension ladders, the minimum overlap for the two sections in use shall be as follows:
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Ladders up to and including those 36 feet (11 m) in length must overlap at least 3 feet (1 m).</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Ladders over 36 feet (11 m) up to and including those 48 feet (15 m) in length must overlap at least 4 feet (1.2 m).</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Ladders over 48 feet (15 m) up to and including those 60 feet (18 m) in length must overlap at least 5 feet (1.5 m).</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Short ladders shall not be spliced together to provide long sections.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A ladder used to gain access to a roof shall extend at least 3 feet (1 m) above the point of support, at eave, gutter, or roofline.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ladders shall not be used in a horizontal position as platforms, runways, or scaffolds.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ladders shall not be placed in front of doors opening towards the ladder unless the door is blocked open, locked or guarded.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The top two steps of ordinary stepladders shall not be used.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ladders shall not be used by more than one person at a time unless they are specifically designed for such use.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">When ascending or descending, the climber must face the ladder and keep their hands free of tools or other objects.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Only ladders manufactured with non-conductive materials shall be utilized where contact is possible with exposed live electrical equipment or conductors.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Only properly rated ladders shall be used for each work situation.  Ladders shall display their load capacity and shall not be overloaded.  The North American ladder ratings below indicate the maximum total weight a specifically rated ladder will support, while the European classifications indicated the duty rating, the maximum static vertical load, and the application.
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li "> North America<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Type I-A 300 lbs. or 130 kg maximum</li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Type I 250 lbs. or 110 kg maximum</li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Type II 225 lbs. or 100 kg maximum</li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Type III 200 lbs. or 90 kg maximum </li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Europe<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Class 1		130 kg		175 kg		Industrial</li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Class EN131	115 kg		150 kg		Commercial</li>
                                    <li class="- topic/li ">Class III		95 kg		125 kg		Domestic</li>
                                 </ol>
                              </li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">FIXED LADDERS<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Pitch<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The preferred pitch of fixed ladders shall fall within the range of 75 degrees and 90 degrees with the horizontal.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Fixed ladders shall be considered as substandard if they are installed within the pitch range of 60 and 75 degrees with the horizontal.  Substandard fixed ladders are permitted only where it is found necessary to meet conditions of installation.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Ladders having a pitch in excess of 90 degrees with the horizontal shall be prohibited.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Rungs and Cleats<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All rungs shall have a minimum diameter of three-fourths inch (20 mm).</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The distance between rungs, cleats, and steps shall not exceed 12 inches (30 cm) and shall be uniform throughout the length of the ladder.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The minimum clear length of rungs or cleats shall be 16 inches (40 cm).</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The distance measured horizontally from the centerline of the rungs to the nearest permanent object on the climbing side of the ladder shall be 36 inches (90 cm) for a pitch of 76 degrees, and 30 inches (76 cm) for a pitch of 90 degrees.  Minimum clearances for intermediate pitches varying between these two limits shall be in proportion to the slope.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A clear width of at least 15 inches (38 cm)shall be provided each way from the centerline of the ladder in the climbing space, except when cages or wells are necessary.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The distance from the centerline of rungs, cleats, or steps to the nearest permanent object in back of the ladder shall not be less than 7 inches (18 cm), except when unavoidable obstructions are encountered.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Placement<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The step-across distance from the nearest edge of ladder to the nearest edge of equipment or structure shall not be more than 12 inches (30 cm), or less than 2.5 inches (6.5 cm).</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Where a step-across distance greater than 12 inches (30 cm) exists from the centerline of the rung of a ladder to the nearest edge of structure or equipment, a landing platform shall be provided.
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">All landing platforms shall be equipped with standard railings and toe boards, so arranged as to give safe access to the ladder.
                        </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Platforms shall not be less than 24 inches (60 cm) wide and 30 inches (76 cm) long.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Cages<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Cages shall be provided on ladders of more than 20 feet (6 m) to a maximum unbroken length of 30 feet (9 m), unless alternate fall protection is used.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Cages shall extend a minimum of 3.5 feet (1 m) above the top of the landing, unless other acceptable protection is provided.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Cages shall extend down the ladder to a point not less than 7 feet (2 m) nor more than 8 feet above the base of the ladder, with bottom flared not less than 4 inches (10 cm), or portion of cage opposite ladder shall be carried to the base.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Cages shall not extend less than 27 inches (68.5 cm) or more than 28 inches (71 cm) from the centerline of the rungs of the ladder.  Cages shall not be less than 27 inches (68.5 cm) in width.  The inside shall be clear of projections.  </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Rungs shall have a maximum spacing of 9.5 inches (24 cm) from center to center.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
