<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
         id="c20DAD9E-BB02-11F0-4595-09173F13E4C5"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Purpose and Scope</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-11-10+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-10+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="management,engineering,maintenance,quality"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metR-fes-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>mcs-server-backup</indexterm>
            <indexterm>tapeless-backup-capability</indexterm>
            <indexterm>backup-hardware-and-software</indexterm>
            <indexterm>system-integration-scope</indexterm>
            
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>scope-definition</indexterm>
            <indexterm>purpose-statement</indexterm>
            <indexterm>installation-boundaries</indexterm>
            <indexterm>out-of-scope-items</indexterm>
            <indexterm>assumptions-and-prerequisites</indexterm>
            <indexterm>roles-and-responsibilities</indexterm>
            <indexterm>success-criteria</indexterm>
            <indexterm>implementation-timeline</indexterm>
            <indexterm>acceptance-criteria</indexterm>
            <indexterm>risk-and-mitigation</indexterm>
            
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>glass-manufacturing-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>production-uptime-requirements</indexterm>
            <indexterm>on-site-installation-restrictions</indexterm>
            <indexterm>third-party-vendor-interaction</indexterm>
            <indexterm>safety-and-compliance-requirements</indexterm>
            <indexterm>asset-lifecycle-impact</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operational-readiness</indexterm>
            <indexterm>project-scope-governance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>stakeholder-engagement</indexterm>
            <indexterm>change-control-procedures</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-FES-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Purpose and Scope: Tapeless Backup for MCS System"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Defines the purpose, scope, assumptions, responsibilities, success criteria and constraints for adding tapeless backup capability to the MCS server family."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="scope-item;assumption;responsibility;success-criteria;risk"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:industrial-engineering;usecase:scope-definition;industry:glass-manufacturing"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="purpose,scope,assumptions,roles,success-criteria,constraints"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="define-scope-and-purpose-for-tapeless-backup-implementation"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <ol class="- topic/ol ">
         <li class="- topic/li ">This document explains the procedures that support engineers must follow to add tapeless backup hard disk drives and backup software to the existing family of MCS servers.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">Older MCS servers are configured to perform system backups from their internal hard disk to a tape drive. These image backups are initiated by manual operator requests submitted through the MCS user interface.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">The tapeless backup scheme was designed because tape drives are becoming increasingly
            difficult to maintain and/or replace, and hard drives are relatively inexpensive and
            easily maintained. This new backup scheme will allow the hard disk backups to be
            scheduled and performed automatically (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">although it will still be necessary to
               manually verify backups on a weekly basis</i> – consult FES-03-601 for
            information).</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">The tapeless backup option functions by adding an additional dedicated backup disk to the VMS and Windows Servers. Backups for both systems are copied to the other system so that if one server is lost, it can be recovered from the other server. Scheduled tasks on the Windows server control the creation of both server backups. This occurs every Saturday morning as driven by scheduled tasks on the Windows server.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">To use this new backup scheme, it is necessary to install a disk drive into an existing server, transfer files, and then update several command files.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">This document applies to the following MCS server/operating system (OS) configurations:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">HP Integrity rx2660 (VMS OS)</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">HP Alpha DS15 (VMS OS)</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">HP Alpha DS20 (VMS OS)</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">HP Alpha 1200 (VMS OS)</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">HP Alpha 4000 (VMS OS)</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">HP Proliant DL380, Gen 7 (Windows OS)</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">HP Proliant DL380, Gen 6 (Windows OS)</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">HP Proliant DL380, Gen 5 (Windows OS)</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">HP Proliant DL380, Gen 4 (Windows OS)</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">HP Proliant DL380, Gen 3 (Windows OS)</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">HP Proliant DL380, Gen 2 (Windows OS)</li>
            </ol>
         </li>
      </ol>
   </conbody>
</concept>
