<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1CDA453-BB01-11F0-1400-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Process Requirements</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T10:59:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T10:59:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="maintenance-personnel,operations-team,industrial-engineers,reliability-engineers,safety-compliance-officers"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-ehs-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>process-requirements</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lockout-tagout-standards</indexterm>
            <indexterm>tryout-guidelines</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operational-controls</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>procedure-documentation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>competency-assessment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>isolation-checklist</indexterm>
            <indexterm>equipment-verification</indexterm>
            <indexterm>reinstatement-process</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>glass-manufacturing</indexterm>
            <indexterm>mro-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-commissioning</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>work-permit-systems</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Lockout tagout tryout process requirements"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Lists mandatory process level requirements, checklists and competency criteria for lockout tagout and tryout operations."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="isolation-checklists;competency-records;work-permits;test-logs;reinstatement-approvals"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:ehs/usecase:process-requirements-and-controls/industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="process-requirements,lockout,tryout,checklists,competency"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="set-process-standards-for-lockout-tagout-and-tryouts"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">The local/country regulatory requirements relating to Lockout Tagout Tryout must be understood and complied with at all times.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">The risks associated with or equipment undergoing repair, construction, fault finding, maintenance, or cleaning should be formally assessed and have appropriate control measures put in place.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">All new items and equipment should be designed to enable the Lockout Tagout Tryout system to be used as standard.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">If access is required for the purpose of maintenance, fault finding, cleaning or repair, the item of plant must be stopped and one or more of the following controls used to minimize any risk to health or safety:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">lockout or isolation devices.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">danger tags (explanation of hazard with date and signature of lock owner).</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">permit to work systems.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">If it is not reasonably practicable to carry out maintenance, fault finding, cleaning or repair while the plant is stopped, operational controls that permit controlled movement of the plant must be fitted and safe systems of work used.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Formally identify and document all energy sources and isolation points.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Develop and implement isolation procedures that includes shut down of plant, identify all energy sources, identify all isolation points, isolate all energy sources, de-energize all stored energies, lock out all isolation points, tag controls, confirm isolation, test for zero energy, and reactivate isolated plant.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Confirm that isolation is effective and that all energy is prevented from entering, removed or restrained (This is sometimes referred to as “try out” or “verification”).</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Provide workers with suitable locks/hasps, personal danger tags, and out of service tags.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Every person working on isolated equipment should fit their own lock/hasp and ‘Danger’ tag.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Tags should be signed and dated, and a worker shall not remove another worker’s locks and tags.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Out of Service tags must be used to identify equipment or machinery that has been taken out of service due to a fault, damage, or malfunction.  Out of Service tags must not be removed until the equipment is determined as safe to return to service by an authorized person.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure that personnel are provided with adequate information, instruction, and have been trained in isolation procedures.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure that only competently trained and suitability qualified personnel monitor and supervise the implementation of isolation procedures.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Competency based training and instruction must be provided as necessary for employees, managers, supervisors, machine operators, maintenance personnel, and anyone else required to lockout, tagout, and tryout equipment in a manner that is readily understood.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">The unauthorized removal of locks and tags from plant or equipment is a direct contravention of EHS Golden Rules 1, 5, and 6.</li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
