<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1DD5EDC-BB01-11F0-1346-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T15:19:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T15:19:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="maintenance personnel,machine operators,workshop supervisors,safety and compliance officers,industrial engineers"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>cordless-drills</indexterm>
            <indexterm>angle-grinders</indexterm>
            <indexterm>impact-wrenches</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hand-wrenches</indexterm>
            <indexterm>tool-calibration-kit</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>pre-use-inspection</indexterm>
            <indexterm>tool-maintenance-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lockout-tagout-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>safe-handling-guidelines</indexterm>
            <indexterm>fault-reporting-process</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>workshop-procedures</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-activities</indexterm>
            <indexterm>production-support-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operator-competency</indexterm>
            <indexterm>safety-and-compliance</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Stepwise procedures for inspection safe use and maintenance of hand and power tools"/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="specific-tool-models;inspection-checklists;maintenance-logs;lockout-tagout-kits;fault-reports"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:operational-procedure;usecase:tool-use-and-maintenance;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="procedure,inspection,maintenance,toolsafety"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="provide-operational-steps-for-tool-safety"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Hazard Assessment<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Safe working procedures shall be developed for all hand and power tools. These procedures shall be in the form of Safe Operating Procedures or form EHS-02-112-F 001 Job Hazard Analysis and PPE Assessment.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">General Safe Work Practices<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All tools shall be kept in good condition (e.g., sharp, clean, etc.) with regular maintenance.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Proper personal protective equipment shall be provided and used correctly.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The right tool for the task shall be practiced.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Each tool shall be examined for damage before use and damaged tools shall not be used.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Damaged tools shall be removed from service and tagged: “Do Not Use,” or “Out of Service.”</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Space shall not issue or permit the use of unsafe hand tools.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Employees shall be trained in the proper use and handling of tools and equipment.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Operators of tools shall direct the motion away from their body, as well as away from aisle areas and other employees working in close proximity.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Sharp tools shall be kept sharp to avoid unnecessary damage or injury.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Impact tools shall be kept free of mushroomed heads.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Wooden tools shall not be splintered.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Spark-resistant tools made of non-ferrous materials shall be used where flammable gases, highly volatile liquids, and other explosive substances are stored or used. </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Tools shall be operated and serviced according to the manufacturers’ instructions (e.g., lubricating, changing accessories, etc.)</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Tools shall not be carried by the cord or hose.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Cords and hoses shall not be yanked to disconnect from the receptacle.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Cords and hoses shall be kept away from heat, oil, and sharp edges.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">When not in use, tools shall be disconnected before servicing and cleaning, and when changing accessories such as blades, bits, and cutters.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Employees not involved with the work shall maintain a safe distance from the work area.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Work shall be secured with clamps and vises, freeing both hands to operate the tool.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Accidental starting shall be avoided. Fingers shall be held away from the
                        <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">switch</uicontrol> button when carrying a plugged-in tool.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Appropriate apparel shall be worn for the task (e.g., no loose clothing).</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Guards<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Exposed, moving parts of power tools shall be safeguarded. Belts, gears, shafts, pulleys, sprockets, spindles, drums, flywheels, chains, or other reciprocating, rotating, or moving parts of equipment shall be guarded.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Machine guards, as appropriate, shall be provided to protect the operator and other from the following:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Point of operation</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">In-running nip points</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Rotating parts</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Flying chips and sparks</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Safety guards shall never be removed when a tool is being used.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Portable circular saws having a blade greater than 2 inches (5 centimeters) in diameter shall be equipped at all times with guards. An upper guard must cover the entire blade of the saw. A retractable lower guard must cover the teeth of the saw, except where it makes contact with the work material. The lower guard must automatically return to the covering position when the tool is withdrawn from the work material.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Operating Controls and Switches<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The following hand-held power tools shall be equipped with a constant-pressure switch or control that shuts off the power when pressure is released: drills; tappers; fastener drivers; horizontal, vertical, and angle grinders with wheels more than 2 inches (5 centimeters) in diameter; disc sanders with discs greater than 2 inches (5 centimeters); belt sanders; reciprocating saws; saber saws, scroll saws, and jigsaws with blade shanks greater than 1/4-inch (0.63 centimeters) wide; and other similar tools.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">These tools also shall be equipped with a “lock-on” control, if it allows the operator to also shut off the control in a single motion using the same finger or fingers. The following hand-held power tools must be equipped with either a positive “on-off” control switch, a constant pressure switch, or a “lock-on” control: disc sanders with discs 2 inches (5 centimeters) or less in diameter; grinders with wheels 2 inches (5 centimeters) or less in diameter; platen sanders, routers, planers, laminate trimmers, nibblers, shears, and scroll saws; and jigsaws, saber and scroll saws with blade shanks a nominal 1/4-inch (6.35 millimeters) or less in diameter.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">It is recommended that the constant-pressure control switch be regarded as the preferred device.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Other hand-held power tools such as circular saws having a blade diameter greater than 2 inches (5 centimeters), chain saws, and percussion tools with no means of holding accessories securely shall be equipped with a constant-pressure switch.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Electric Tools<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Electrical tools shall have a three-wire cord with a ground and be plugged into a grounded receptacle, be double insulated, or be powered by a low-voltage isolation transformer.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The following safe work practices shall be followed when using electric tools:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Electric tools shall be operated within their design limitations.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Gloves and appropriate safety footwear shall be worn when using electric tools.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Electric tools shall be stored in a dry place when not in use.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Electric tools shall not be operated in damp or wet location unless they are approved for that purpose.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Cords from electric tools shall be maintained so they do not present a tripping hazard to the operator or other employees.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Portable Abrasive Wheel Tools<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Abrasive wheel tools shall be equipped with guards that: (1) cover the spindle end, nut, and flange projections; (2) maintain proper alignment with the wheel; and (3) do not exceed the strength of the fastenings.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Before an abrasive wheel is mounted, it shall be inspected closely for damage and should be sound- or ring-tested to ensure that it is free from cracks or defects.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Abrasive wheels shall be allowed to come up to operating speed prior to grinding or cutting.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Operators shall stand away from the plane of rotation of the wheel as it accelerates to full operating speed.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Portable grinding tools shall be equipped with safety guards to protect operators not only from the moving wheel surface, but also from flying fragments in case of wheel breakage.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">When using a powered grinder:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Eye and/or face protection shall be used.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The power shall be disconnected when not in use.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A hand-held grinder shall never be clamped in a vise.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Pneumatic Tools<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Pneumatic tools shall be checked to see that the tools are fastened securely to the air hose to prevent them from becoming disconnected. A short wire or positive locking device attaching the air hose to the tool must also be used and will serve as an added safeguard.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">When using pneumatic tools, a safety clip or retainer shall be installed to prevent attachments such as chisels on a chipping hammer from being ejected during tool operation.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Pneumatic tools that shoot nails, rivets, staples, or similar fasteners and operate at pressures more than 100 pounds per square inch (6,890 kPa), shall be equipped with a special device to keep fasteners from being ejected, unless the muzzle is pressed against the work surface.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Airless spray guns that atomize paints and fluids at pressures of 1,000 pounds or more per square inch (6,890 kPa) shall be equipped with automatic or visible manual safety devices that will prevent pulling the trigger until the safety device is manually released.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Eye protection is required, and head and face protection is recommended for operators of pneumatic tools.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Screens shall be set up to protect employees in the near vicinity from being struck by flying fragments around chippers, riveting guns, staplers, or air drills.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Compressed air guns shall never be pointed toward anyone. Operators must never “dead-end” them against themselves or anyone else. A chip guard must be used when compressed air is used for cleaning.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Air hoses shall be maintained so they do not present a tripping hazard to the operator or other employees.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Liquid Fuel Tools<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Gas or fuel shall be handled, transported, and stored in approved flammable liquid containers, according to proper procedures for flammable liquids.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Before refilling a fuel-powered tool tank, the user shall shut down the engine and allow it to cool to prevent accidental ignition of hazardous vapors.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">When a fuel-powered tool is used inside a closed area, effective ventilation and/or proper respirators such as an atmosphere-supplying respirator shall be utilized to avoid breathing carbon monoxide.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Fire extinguishers shall be available in areas where fuel-powered tools are used.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Powder-Actuated Tools<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">When using powder-actuated tools, the operator shall wear suitable ear, eye, and face protection. The user must select a powder level—high or low velocity—that is appropriate for the powder-actuated tool and necessary to do the work without excessive force.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Operators of powder-actuated tools shall be specially trained.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The muzzle end of the tool shall have a protective shield or guard centered perpendicular to and concentric with the barrel to confine any fragments or particles that are projected when the tool is fired. A tool containing a high-velocity load must be designed not to fire unless it has this kind of safety device.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Safety precautions that shall be followed when using powder-actuated tools include the following:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Do not use a tool in an explosive or flammable atmosphere.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Inspect the tool before using it to determine that it is clean, that all moving parts operate freely, and that the barrel is free from obstructions and has the proper shield, guard, and attachments recommended by the manufacturer.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Do not load the tool unless it is to be used immediately.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Do not leave a loaded tool unattended, especially where it would be available to unauthorized persons. </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Keep hands clear of the barrel end.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Never point the tool at anyone.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">When using powder-actuated tools to apply fasteners, several additional procedures shall be followed:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Do not fire fasteners into material that would allow the fasteners to pass through to the other side.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Do not drive fasteners into very hard or brittle material that might chip or splatter or make the fasteners ricochet.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Always use an alignment guide when shooting fasteners into existing holes.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">When using a high-velocity tool, do not drive fasteners more than 3 inches (7.62 centimeters) from an unsupported edge or corner of material such as brick or concrete.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">When using a high-velocity tool, do not place fasteners in steel any closer than 1/2-inch (1.27 centimeters) from an unsupported corner edge unless a special guard, fixture, or jig is used.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Hydraulic Power Tools<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The fluid used in hydraulic power tools shall be an approved fire-resistant fluid and must retain its operating characteristics at the most extreme temperatures to which it will be exposed.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The exception to fire-resistant fluid involves all hydraulic fluids used for the insulated sections of derrick trucks, aerial lifts, and hydraulic tools that are used on or around energized lines. This hydraulic fluid shall be of the insulating type.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The manufacturer’s recommended safe operating pressure for hoses, valves, pipes, filters, and other fittings shall not be exceeded.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All jacks—including lever and ratchet jacks, screw jacks, and hydraulic jacks—shall have a stop indicator, and the stop limit must not be exceeded. Also, the manufacturer’s load limit shall be permanently marked in a prominent place on the jack, and the load limit must not be exceeded.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">A jack shall never be used to support a lifted load. Once the load has been lifted, it must immediately be blocked up by putting a block under the base of the jack when the foundation is not firm, and placing a block between the jack cap and load if the cap might slip.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">To set up a jack, make certain of the following:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The base of the jack shall rest on a firm, level surface;</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The jack shall be correctly centered;</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The jack head shall bear against a level surface; and</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The lift force shall be applied evenly.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All jacks shall be lubricated regularly. In addition, each jack shall be inspected according to the following schedule: (1) for jacks used continuously or intermittently at one site—inspected at least once every 6 months, (2) for jacks sent out of the shop for special work—inspected when sent out and inspected when returned, and (3) for jacks subjected to abnormal loads or shock—inspected before use and immediately thereafter.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
