<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1DAEC37-BB01-11F0-1087-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Process</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T15:00:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T15:00:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="operations-team,maintenance-and-mro-staff,safety-and-compliance-officers,industrial-engineers,plant-management"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-ehs-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-management-system</indexterm>
            <indexterm>work-permit-system</indexterm>
            <indexterm>job-hazard-analysis-tool</indexterm>
            <indexterm>inspection-sensor-network</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>job-hazard-analysis</indexterm>
            <indexterm>preventive-maintenance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>permit-to-work-process</indexterm>
            <indexterm>risk-assessment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>workflow-approval</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>maintenance-and-mro</indexterm>
            <indexterm>fleet-maintenance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>on-site-repairs</indexterm>
            <indexterm>shutdown-and-isolation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operational-reliability</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="process"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Workflows for maintenance permits job hazard analysis and risk control during plant operations."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="maintenance-plan;work-permit;jha-form;calibration-record;spare-parts"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:EHS;usecase:maintenance-and-workflow;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="process,maintenance,workflows,jha,preventive-maintenance"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="standardise maintenance and permit workflows to reduce risk"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">The JHA/Risk Assessment process shall consist of four phases:-<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Hazard Identification<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Hazards shall be identified when:
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">an accident / incident investigation takes place or review of previous injury / incident records or hazard notifications take place.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">a hazard or near miss notification is received.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">a workplace inspection is conducted.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">a new plant, equipment, processes or chemical / substance is introduced.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">modifications to plant, equipment, processes, substances are made.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">new information which becomes available which affects health, safety of the environment is introduced.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">assessments are required by legislation.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Risk Assessment<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The Plant / Department Manager shall ensure that risks associated with each identified hazard are assessed in consultation with appropriate personnel. The appropriate personnel may include team members, EHS personnel, EHS representative, engineers, supervisors, and persons who identified a hazards, and any person involved in an incident.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The risk assessment shall consider:
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">the likelihood of the hazard causing harm and </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">the severity of the harm of the hazardous event or situation.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The level of risk shall be determined as Low, Moderate, High or Extreme using EHS-02-112-F 003 EHS Risk Matrix and will be dependent on the detail of the hazard entered into risk assessment EHS-03-001-F Job Hazard Analysis and PPE Assessment. 
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Work Instruction EHS-03-001 Job Hazard Analysis and PPE Assessment may
                                 be used to properly enter information into EHS-03-001-F Job Hazard
                                 Analysis and PPE Assessment.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Risk Control Measures<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The Plant / Department Manger shall ensure the appropriate control measures are determined. Appropriate personnel or contractor must be consulted as required in the determination of control measures.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The control measures to be implemented shall be in accordance with the hierarchy of controls as follows:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">elimination</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">substitution</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">engineering</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">administrative controls</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">personal protective equipment</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Review of JHA/Risk Assessment &amp; Control Measures<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Upon the completion of a JHA/Risk Assessment where control measures have been implemented, those measures shall be assessed after implementation to ensure the measures are operating as required to determine if those measures have achieved an acceptable level of control for the hazard identified.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All JHA/risk assessments must be reviewed in alignment with the frequency of the work instruction it applies to, when a new task is identified or where the process, machinery &amp; equipment or substances used in the process change.  This will address any hazards introduced as a result of those changes.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Global JHAs shall be completed by each GNL and fundamental team for identification of specific hazards and PPE requirements for each work instructions. Approval of each JHA/Risk Assessment should be completed by Global EHS and referenced in the corresponding work instruction.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">All high risk Hazards shall be documented using EHS-02-112-F 002 Job Hazard Analysis Risk Register for further control measures to be worked on.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
