<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
         id="c1FE65AB-BB01-11F0-1795-09173F13E4C5"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Purpose</title>
   <prolog class="- topic/prolog ">
      <author class="- topic/author ">Metapercept</author>
      <critdates class="- topic/critdates ">
         <created date="2025-11-05+05:30" class="- topic/created "/>
         <revised modified="2025-05-05" class="- topic/revised "/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata class="- topic/metadata ">
         <audience type="role"
                   platform="web"
                   product="metR-FES-Space"
                   class="- topic/audience "/>
         <keywords class="- topic/keywords ">
            <keyword class="- topic/keyword "/>
            <indexterm class="- topic/indexterm "/>
            <indexterm class="- topic/indexterm "/>
         </keywords>
         <othermeta name="title" content="" class="- topic/othermeta "/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="" class="- topic/othermeta "/>
      </metadata>
      <resourceid appid=""
                  appname=""
                  id=""
                  ux-source-priority="topic-and-map"
                  class="- topic/resourceid "/>
   </prolog>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <ol class="- topic/ol ">
         <li class="- topic/li ">As MCS system replacement rolls on, a surplus of OpenVMS capable hardware has been created. This hardware can be used to operate FSC systems, as the FSC has no replacement (until a plant has completely replaced Space timing systems with offerings from Bucher-Emhart Glass). This procedure outlines how to repurpose one of those hardware platforms, the AlphaServer DS15, to host the FSC system. The procedure may leave out details of certain steps that could vary from system to system, and is meant to be followed by someone with existing VMS system management and hardware experience.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">For COM-SOC 1 communication, it is important to retain the Digi Edgeboard device. Note that this device may not be plugged or unplugged while it or the server have power connected. Doing so will damage it, and they are no longer available new. Since the MCS used the 8-port version of the Edgeboard, the converted server will be limited to 7 COM-SOC I machines plus the Optomux unit or 8 machines without Optomux.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">This procedure preserves the existing OpenVMS operating system installation and licensing information.</li>
      </ol>
   </conbody>
</concept>
