<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1D3E251-BB01-11F0-1377-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T13:06:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T13:06:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="machine-operators,maintenance-personnel,industrial-engineers,safety-and-compliance-officers,contractors"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-ehs-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>work-at-height-equipment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>rescue-lifecycle</indexterm>
            <indexterm>inspection-checklist</indexterm>
            <indexterm>training-module</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>step-by-step-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>pre-work-inspection</indexterm>
            <indexterm>control-measures</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hands-on-verification</indexterm>
            <indexterm>emergency-response</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>maintenance-activities</indexterm>
            <indexterm>production-support</indexterm>
            <indexterm>structural-access</indexterm>
            <indexterm>contractor-works</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-safety-operations</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Working at heights step by step procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Stepwise procedure for planning executing and supervising work at heights including inspections controls and emergency response"/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="inspection checklist;fall protection device;rescue plan;permit;supervisor"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:ehs;usecase:procedure-and-execution;industry:glass manufacturing heavy-machinery-and-industrial-equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="procedure,inspection,controls,rescue,permit"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="Provide a definitive procedural reference for safe performance of work at heights"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Hazard Assessment/Identification<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">A hazard assessment of the job task or work area is required to determine if fall hazards are present, or likely to be present.  For purposes of the Working At Heights program, a fall hazard may exist if (but is not limited to):<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Any time an employee is working at unprotected heights of no more than 2 meters (6 feet) or as specified by local regulation.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">When working above areas that present extraordinary hazards, such as,
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Dangerous machinery</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Impalement hazards</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Floor / Roof openings</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Open floors, access ways for hoists, skylights, vents</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Leading edge hazards</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Unprotected edges</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Steep roof or surface.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Machine loading / crating for shipment.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Building maintenance work.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Aerial boom style lifts and Scissor lifts.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Walking on or working in an elevated pipe rack or electrical trays.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">When hazards cannot be engineered out or the work procedures cannot be modified to eliminate the hazard.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">If the fall hazard cannot be eliminated, then personal fall arrest or fall prevention equipment shall be used.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">A Permit shall be issued for any work outside of a permanent platform or while using
               mobile equipment (For example, EWP, any roof work, ect.) using Form "EHS-02-103-F 003
               Working at Heights Permit" or equivalent.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Equipment Inspection<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Fall arrest and fall protection equipment shall be inspected, maintained, and documented before each use according to Form EHS-02-103-F 001 Working at Heights Equipment Checklist Form or equivalent.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Complete the Working at Heights Inspection Checklist Form by using Work
                  Instruction "EHS-03-005 Working at Heights Equipment Inspection Checklist".</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li id="li_swv_1n5_4zb" class="- topic/li ">Equipment Use (Tying Off)<ol id="ol_uwv_1n5_4zb" class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Employees shall use appropriate fall arrest equipment when performing tasks at
                     unprotected elevations of 2 meters (6ft), or as specified by local
                     legislation.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Appropriate fall arrest equipment includes, at a minimum:<ol id="ol_vwv_1n5_4zb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li id="li_v5r_gn5_4zb" class="- topic/li ">A full body harness that properly fits the user
                           according to Work Instruction EHS-03-006 Wearing Harness Equipment.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">A lanyard that is appropriate to the task being conducted <ol id="ol_wwv_1n5_4zb" class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Shock absorbing lanyards shall only be utilized when the fall
                                 distance from the connection point, to a lower level or objects,
                                 exceeds 5.3 meters (17 ½ ft.)</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">An anchorage point</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Once the appropriate harness and lanyard has been donned, employees shall
                     select and connect to an anchorage point.<ol id="ol_xwv_1n5_4zb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Anchorage points shall be selected to ensure there would not be contact
                           with a lower level or objects should a fall occur </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Prior to use, anchorage points and devices shall be visually inspected
                           to determine that they are of substantial strength and undamaged </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Anchorage points shall be attached to substantial structures capable of
                           supporting 5000lbs (2268kg) per employee attached<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "/>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Anchorage points shall be placed directly above or behind the work area
                           to avoid potential swing fall hazards and away from sharp edges or other
                           objects</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">When employees are finished with the task, they shall ensure that the work
                     area is clear and safe (i.e. holes/openings are covered) prior to unhooking
                     from the anchorage point </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Posting of Permits for working at heights.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">All working at heights permits shall be posted.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Fall Arrest Equipment shall be available at the plant according to the Fall Arrest section of the MSDR EHS-07-111 PPE Equipment Register.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Personnel shall become familiar with the equipment’s visual appearance by performing a visual inspection on a frequent basis in order to identify damage or wear.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">A third party contractor shall inspect all fall arrest equipment every six months in addition to user pre-use inspection.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The manufacturer's directions and recommendations for the inspection requirements of the equipment in use shall be followed.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Any fall arrest equipment that is found to be defective or has been subject to a fall <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">shall be removed from service immediately</u> and brought to the attention of EHS or supervisor.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">An emergency response and rescue plan for working at heights of shall be implemented and documented.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Cleaning and Storage of Equipment<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Storage areas shall be clean, dry, and free of exposure to fumes or corrosive elements.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Equipment shall be cleaned according to manufacturer’s instructions.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">When not in use, the harness shall be stored hanging by the back D-ring. This
                     allows the harness to retain its original shape.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The equipment shall be stored in a cool, dry place until needed. If materials appear to be faded or tags and labels are illegible, consult a trained person to determine if replacement is necessary.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Alternative Methods<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">When performing tasks conducted at elevations of 2 meters (6 feet) or as specified by local legislations, preference should be given to alternative methods, such as fixed platforms or guardrails which eliminate the fall hazards.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Personal fall arrest equipment, such as harnesses and lanyards, shall be used when the fall hazards cannot be eliminated through engineering controls or through modification of work procedures.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Personnel training shall be document using Form EHS-07-103 Working at Heights Qualified Employee List.</li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
