<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1FBFD5A-BB01-11F0-1440-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-11-07+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-07"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="production,maintenance,engineering,safety"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metR-FES-Space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>forming-supervisory-computer</indexterm>
            <indexterm>fsc</indexterm>
            <indexterm>integrity-server</indexterm>
            <indexterm>recovery-console</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>pre-tuning-checklist</indexterm>
            <indexterm>execute-performance-tuning</indexterm>
            <indexterm>verify-system-integrity</indexterm>
            <indexterm>post-tuning-validation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>rollback-and-restoration</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>glass-manufacturing</indexterm>
            <indexterm>production-restart</indexterm>
            <indexterm>low-latency-control</indexterm>
            <indexterm>operational-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>compliance-records</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-FES-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="FES-03-102 — Procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Step-by-step procedure for integrity checks and performance tuning on FSC integrity servers, including verification and rollback."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="Pre-tuning Checklist;Tuning Job;Validation Report;Rollback Plan;Restore Point"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:operations;usecase:fsc-integrity-tuning;industry:glass-manufacturing"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="procedure,tuning,validation"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="procedure"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">In order to improve FSC Integrity server performance follow these steps:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">If the FSC is a DEC MicroVAX or Compaq Alphaserver, use the console terminal or
                     PC terminal emulator connected to the console port. The console device is
                     typically in the immediate vicinity of the FSC. Go to step <xref href="#r1FBFD5A-BB01-11F0-1440-09173F13E4C5/li_qnl_j5x_pzb" class="- topic/xref ">5</xref> when you have identified the console
                     device. For an Integrity, proceed to step <xref href="#r1FBFD5A-BB01-11F0-1440-09173F13E4C5/li_mfc_j5x_pzb" class="- topic/xref ">2</xref>.</li>
                  <li id="li_mfc_j5x_pzb" class="- topic/li ">If the FSC is an HP Integrity Server, either use the console
                     device next to the FSC, or use a terminal emulator to connect to the Integrity
                     Server Management Port.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">If necessary, log on as user “Oper” with the password “console”.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">At the Management Port Main Menu, type “<userinput class="+ topic/ph sw-d/userinput ">co</userinput>” and press
                        <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Enter</uicontrol> to connect to the VMS Console.</li>
                  <li id="li_qnl_j5x_pzb" class="- topic/li ">Test whether you have keyboard control by typing
                        <userinput class="+ topic/ph sw-d/userinput ">Ctrl-w</userinput>. If there is a message saying that you have
                     read-only access, perform the following three-character sequence shown in
                     parentheses to take control (Ctrl-e, c, f). Hold the Ctrl key down only when
                     typing the letter “<userinput class="+ topic/ph sw-d/userinput ">e</userinput>”. Type all three characters in the
                     time it would take to say them out loud.</li>
                  <li id="li_gbq_lzx_pzb" class="- topic/li ">Press the <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Enter</uicontrol> key to test the
                     response. The console could be logged off in which case you will be prompted
                     for a Username, or the console could be logged onto the FSC menu by the person
                     responsible for backups.<ol id="ol_hbq_lzx_pzb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">It is also possible that the console might be still logged on as a
                           privileged VMS user. If so, type “<userinput class="+ topic/ph sw-d/userinput ">log</userinput>” and press
                              <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol ">Enter</uicontrol> to log off and then proceed to step <xref href="#r1FBFD5A-BB01-11F0-1440-09173F13E4C5/li_gbq_lzx_pzb" class="- topic/xref ">6</xref>.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">If the console was not logged in, type “<userinput class="+ topic/ph sw-d/userinput ">fsc</userinput>” at the
                     username prompt to log in. Then navigate to the Backup Menu and perform the
                     appropriate backup within the capabilities of the FSC server model. If the FSC
                     is an HP Integrity Server with FSC version 6.1-0 or later installed, one option
                     is to clone the system drive to the backup drive as described in
                     FES-03-101</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">If the console is already running the FSC user application menu, it might already be at the Backup menu or still waiting for a typed response to complete a backup.  In the case of the latter, respond appropriately to navigate to the Backup menu so that you can start a new backup.    <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <note id="note_iwc_pzx_pzb" class="- topic/note ">
                              <p class="- topic/p ">If a reliable backup cannot be performed, resolve this problem
                                 before trying to run AUTOGEN.</p>
                           </note>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">
                           <note id="note_ebx_rzx_pzb" class="- topic/note ">
                              <p class="- topic/p ">If you do not have a password to access the Backup procedure and
                                 there is no one already assigned to make backups, use MOC to add a
                                 new user and password with the appropriate privilege for
                                 Backup.</p>
                           </note>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Upon making a successful image backup, exit from the FSC user account and start a new session with the SYSTEM username.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">At the command line prompt (a.k.a. DCL prompt), type the command: <p class="- topic/p ">show
                     system/sub</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Examine the first line reported to ensure that it has been more than seven
               days since the system was last rebooted. The following example shows a
               system that has been operating 32 days, 4 hours, 48 minutes, and 36 seconds
               (the Uptime).
               <p class="- topic/p ">FSCISX&gt;&gt; show system/sub</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">If the Uptime is sufficient, initiate the AUTOGEN procedure by typing the following
                     command at the DCL prompt: <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">@sys$</i>
                     <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">update:autogen</i>
                     <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">savparams</i>
                     <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">setparams</i>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Monitor all the messages to look for any that have “–E– “ or “–F– “ in the middle of
                     the all capital letters part of the message. These are indications of problems
                     which may require expert assistance to resolve. An example of a successful
                     tuning execution, looks like the following log. The DCL prompt for this system
                     is “FSCISX&gt;&gt;”. <p class="- topic/p ">FSCISX&gt;&gt; @sys$update:autogen savparams
                        setparams</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%AUTOGEN-I-BEGIN, SAVPARAMS phase is
                        beginning.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%AUTOGEN-I-FEEDBACK, Gathering
                        feedback</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%DCL-I-IGNQUAL, qualifiers appearing before this item were
                        ignored</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p "> \SYMBOL\</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%AUTOGEN-I-NEWFILE, A new version of
                        SYS$SYSTEM:AGEN$FEEDBACK.DAT</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">has been created. You may wish to purge
                        this file.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%AUTOGEN-I-END, SAVPARAMS phase has successfully
                        completed.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%AUTOGEN-I-BEGIN, GETDATA phase is
                        beginning.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%RENAME-I-RENAMED, SYS$SYSROOT:[SYSEXE]PARAMS.TMP;1 renamed
                        to SYS$SYSROOT:[SYSEXE]PARAMS.DAT;6</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%AUTOGEN-I-NEWFILE, A new version
                        of SYS$SYSTEM:PARAMS.DAT has been created. </p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">You may wish to purge this
                        file.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%AUTOGEN-I-END, GETDATA phase has successfully
                        completed.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%AUTOGEN-I-BEGIN, GENPARAMS phase is
                        beginning.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%AUTOGEN-I-NEWFILE, A new version of
                        SYS$MANAGER:VMSIMAGES.DAT has been created.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">You may wish to purge this
                        file.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%AUTOGEN-I-NEWFILE, A new version of SYS$SYSTEM:SETPARAMS.DAT
                        has been created.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">You may wish to purge this file.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">
                        %AUTOGEN-I-END, GENPARAMS phase has successfully
                        completed.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%AUTOGEN-I-BEGIN, GENFILES phase is
                        beginning.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">Computed size: 1743854; current size:
                        989928</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%SYSGEN-I-EXTENDED, DKA100:[SYS0.SYSEXE]SYSDUMP.DMP;2
                        extended</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%SYSGEN-I-EXTENDED, DKA100:[SYS0.SYSEXE]SYSDUMP.DMP;2
                        extended</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">Computed size: 86100; current size:
                        107800</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%SYSGEN-I-CREATED, SYS$SYSROOT:[SYSEXE]SWAPFILE.SYS;3
                        created</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%AUTOGEN-I-REPORT, AUTOGEN has produced some informational
                        messages which</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">have been stored in the file
                        SYS$SYSTEM:AGEN$PARAMS.REPORT. You may</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">wish to review the information
                        in that file.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%AUTOGEN-I-END, GENFILES phase has successfully
                        completed.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%AUTOGEN-I-BEGIN, SETPARAMS phase is
                        beginning.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%AUTOGEN-I-SYSGEN, parameters
                        modified</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">%AUTOGEN-I-END, SETPARAMS phase has successfully
                        completed.</p>
                     <p class="- topic/p ">FSCISX&gt;&gt;</p>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">If the tuning was successful, log off the session and coordinate with the users to schedule a system reboot.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">To reboot the system, first log onto the console terminal as user “fsc”. Then
                     navigate to the Utilities menu and select the<uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol "> Shutdown/Reboot
                        System</uicontrol> option.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
