<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="concept-1003"
         xml:lang="en-us"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Introduction to Mind Engage</title>
   <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc "/>
   <prolog>
      <author>Yashshree</author>
      <critdates class="- topic/critdates ">
         <created date="2025-12-09+05:30" class="- topic/created "/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-09" class="- topic/revised "/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="community engagement officers, project managers, program administrators, public information coordinators, external stakeholders, contractors, agency leadership"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-engage-mind</indexterm>
            <indexterm>mind-engage</indexterm>
            <indexterm>saas-platform</indexterm>
            <indexterm>public-portal</indexterm>
            <indexterm>engage-home</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>onboarding-users</indexterm>
            <indexterm>accessing-features</indexterm>
            <indexterm>navigating-portal</indexterm>
            <indexterm>user-authentication</indexterm>
            <indexterm>role-based-access</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>capital-program-administration</indexterm>
            <indexterm>public-engagement</indexterm>
            <indexterm>agency-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>construction-management</indexterm>
            <indexterm>stakeholder-communication</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-engage-Mind</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Introduction to Mind Engage"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Overview of Mind Engage, a SaaS product that enables infrastructure and construction agencies to manage public engagement, campaigns and stakeholder interactions."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="mind-engage-platform;user-account;campaign-module;public-portal;authentication-service"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:capital-program-administration;usecase:introduction-and-onboarding;industry:capital-infrastructure"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="overview, saas, onboarding, features, platform"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="introduce-platform-capabilities-and-core-concepts"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <conbody>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Mind Engage is a software as a service (SaaS) based product that
            enables infrastructure and construction agencies to efficiently collaborate with general
            public potentially using a proposed infrastructure. Mind Engage is a reliable
            full-featured web-based solution to determine general public sentiments on proposed
            projects. It is designed to collate and analyze general public feedback on potential
            projects early in the capital planning process. Mind Engage uses robust artificial
            intelligence (AI) tools to perform powerful analysis on the collated feedback and
            provides critical insights into user sentiment so agencies can decide on the best
            approach to the proposed project.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Mind Engage enables agencies to easily create and effectively
            promote campaigns for proposed capital projects, solicit feedback from potential users
            of the infrastructure, analyze feedback, acknowledge, and respond to feedback. Mind
            Engage enables general public to view details of proposed projects in campaigns and
            voice their opinions on the projects.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Once a campaign with information on the proposed project is created,
            infrastructure and construction agencies can broadcast and promote these campaigns using
            social media such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and other media to solicit feedback.
            Mind Engage then performs powerful sentimental analysis on the feedback received and
            presents analyzed information efficiently. Based on these effective illustrations of
            general public sentiment that Mind Engage provides, agencies can now make informed
            decisions on proposed projects.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Mind Engage involves the following phases:</p>
      <ol class="- topic/ol ">
         <li class="- topic/li "> Configure <xref href="../../Settings/Application_Settings/Application_Settings.dita"
                  class="- topic/xref ">application settings</xref> to customize the
                application.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">
            <xref href="../../Settings/User_Management/User_Management.dita"
                  class="- topic/xref ">Manage application users</xref>.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">
            <xref href="../../Settings/Public_Portal_Settings/Public_Portal_Settings.dita"
                  class="- topic/xref ">Personalize the public portal template and
                theme</xref>.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">
            <xref href="../../Campaigning_for_Projects/Creating_a_Campaign.dita"
                  class="- topic/xref ">Create a campaign </xref>with information on the proposed
                project.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">
            <xref href="../../Campaigning_for_Projects/Publishing_a_Campaign.dita"
                  class="- topic/xref ">Create a public portal </xref>for the general public to
                participate in a campaign and share their feedback.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">
            <xref href="../../Campaigning_for_Projects/Posting_a_Campaign_on_Social_Media.dita"
                  class="- topic/xref ">Promote campaigns using social platforms </xref>to
                increase the demographics and user base for augmented user involvement.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">
            <xref href="../../Viewing_Campaigns/Viewing_Campaigns.dita"
                  class="- topic/xref ">Accept, analyze, and respond </xref>to the comments from
                general public for a campaign.</li>
         <li class="- topic/li ">
            <xref href="../../Reports_and_Dashboards/Generating_Reports/Generating_Reports.dita"
                  class="- topic/xref ">Generate reports </xref>based on the sentiments of the
                comments received from the general public.</li>
      </ol>
   </conbody>
</concept>
