<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1A9426D-BB01-11F0-1934-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-11-06+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-06"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="operator,maintenance,safety-engineer"/>
         <keywords>
            <indexterm>metr-bat-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>training-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>training-schedule</indexterm>
            <indexterm>skill-assessment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>knowledge-evaluation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>competency-verification</indexterm>
            <indexterm>trainer-assignment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>classroom-training</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hands-on-session</indexterm>
            <indexterm>evaluation-form</indexterm>
            <indexterm>glass-manufacturing</indexterm>
            <indexterm>employee-development</indexterm>
            <indexterm>workplace-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>process-compliance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>documentation-control</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-BAT-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Batch House Personnel Training — Procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Detailed procedure for conducting batch house personnel training sessions, covering scheduling, competency testing, and evaluation documentation."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="training-session;schedule;trainer;assessment-form;evaluation-report;attendance-sheet"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:glass-production;usecase:procedural-guidance;industry:glassmanufacturing"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="procedure,training,assessment,competency,evaluation"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="procedure"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">All Batch House personnel shall be properly trained for their specific responsibilities defined in the following documents:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">BAT-02-003 Batch House Environmental, Health and Safety</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">BAT-02-004 Batch House Housekeeping</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">BAT-02-021 Batch House Personnel Responsibilities</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">The Batch &amp; Furnace Manager shall have a training plan for Batch House personnel responsibilities, which shall be reviewed annually by Human Resources (HR) and/or the department supervisor/manager.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Formal training materials (electronic or hard copy) shall be part of the active training program.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Manufacturing Fundamentals Materials: Fundamentals Policy, Work Instructions, Master Specification and Design Requirements (MSDR), training videos/materials, etc.  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Regionally developed training materials, not in conflict with the Manufacturing Fundamentals, related to specific plant requirements.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Training shall be conducted by trainers qualified to deliver training for individual equipment or tasks.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Training performed by, including but not limited to:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Global or furnace network subject matter expert(s).</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Experienced Batch &amp; Furnace Manager.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Third party expert with Network Leader approval.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">New Batch House personnel may be paired with a qualified mentor trainer for on-the-job training to reach the required levels.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Documentation of training records shall be maintained in the plant’s training database or equivalent.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">The Plant Manager, Batch &amp; Furnace Manager and Human Resources (HR) shall be accountable for implementing the Batch House specific training for all Batch House personnel.</li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
