<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1A68034-BB01-11F0-2476-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-11-06+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-11-06"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="operator,maintenance,safety-engineer"/>
         <keywords>
            <indexterm>metr-bat-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>batch-house</indexterm>
            <indexterm>ehs-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hazard-identification</indexterm>
            <indexterm>incident-reporting</indexterm>
            <indexterm>ppe-inspection</indexterm>
            <indexterm>emergency-evacuation</indexterm>
            <indexterm>fire-drill</indexterm>
            <indexterm>ventilation-check</indexterm>
            <indexterm>chemical-spill-response</indexterm>
            <indexterm>glass-manufacturing</indexterm>
            <indexterm>workplace-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>process-control</indexterm>
            <indexterm>training-and-induction</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-activity</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-BAT-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Batch House EHS — Procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Procedural steps for EHS activities in the batch house: hazard checks, PPE inspection, ventilation and fire checks, incident response and reporting."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="ehs-procedure;hazard-checklist;ppe-inspection-form;ventilation-log;incident-report-form"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:glass-production;usecase:procedural-guidance;industry:glassmanufacturing"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="procedure,ehs,incident-response,ppe,ventilation"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="procedure"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">Plant leadership shall be accountable and responsible for providing the
        environmental, health and safety devices and equipment, prerequisite programs, and
        procedures and environmental, health and safety assessments described and referred to in
        this document.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">
            <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Environmental</u>
            <ol id="ol_fv2_h4s_4zb" class="- topic/ol ">
               <li class="- topic/li ">All plants shall develop and manage procedures in compliance with the
              <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">EHS Air Emissions Management Fundamental </b>as required by specific job duties.
            The procedure shall include the following Batch House specific requirements:<p class="- topic/p ">
                     <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">General</u>
                     <ol id="ol_dqy_k4s_4zb" class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Efficient dust management equipment including transferring
                  equipment, gathering equipment and raw materials silos in the Batch House to
                  control dust.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Good work practices to minimize fugitive emissions during
                  unloading and material transfer.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Good work practices to clean-up batch unloading area when
                  material is spilled.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Good work practices to manage waste batch material (the
                  handling of waste batch material can be problematic - fugitive emissions and
                  spills).</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Periodic inspections of the unloading process to confirm that
                  fugitive dust during unloading is not going across the property line.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Comply with any permit conditions regarding fugitive emissions
                  in the raw material unloading and handling process and within the Batch House.<p class="- topic/p ">
                              <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Within the Batch House</u>
                           </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Conduct a periodic inspection of each filter sock and dust
                  collector that is used in the Batch House.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Promptly perform corrective actions to remedy the situation (no
                  excess discharge outside) when the dust collection equipment is not working
                  properly.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Document inspections, problems found and the corrective actions
                  taken.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">If required by the permit, complete Visual Determination of
                  Visible Emissions Readings at the Batch House.<p class="- topic/p ">
                              <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Modifications</u>
                           </p>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Do not add equipment or replace existing equipment in the Batch
                  House without determining the need for a permit or permit modification.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">All plants shall develop and manage procedures in compliance with the
              <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">EHS Waste Management Fundamental</b> as required by specific job duties. The
            procedure shall include the following Batch House specific requirements:<ol id="ol_o4d_cqs_4zb" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">Properly characterize all hazardous and non-hazardous materials
                and ensure they are kept separate. <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Waste batch and cullet </u>will require
                additional management if they are a hazardous waste. Do not mix hazardous and
                non-hazardous waste. </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">Housekeeping of outside batch area is critical to overall waste
                management compliance. This area should be regularly swept with equipment capable of
                vacuuming, wetting and collecting material during sweeping operation. Dry sweeping
                is prohibited. The waste should be separated as needed. Where sweeping is not
                possible, spilled raw material and batch should be shoveled up or otherwise removed
                promptly.</li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">Provide appropriate storage areas to handle waste batch, waste
                cullet and basement cullet. Do not typically mix wastes together or add construction
                and miscellaneous debris to designated waste areas.</li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">All plants shall develop and manage procedures in compliance with the
              <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">EHS Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan Fundamental (SWPPP) </b>as required by
            specific job duties. The procedure shall include the following Batch House specific
              requirements:<ol id="ol_bbp_dqs_4zb" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">The batch/raw material transfer conveyer and elevator should be
                contained/covered to minimize leakage, routinely inspected for proper operations
                including routinely checking for proper tracking and leakage should be promptly
                cleaned up.</li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">The raw material unloading area should be swept after each raw
                material delivery and vacuumed as needed. Measures should be taken to minimize wind
                from blowing material around.</li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">Need to control water run off (dry weather and storm water) from
                basement cullet outside bunkers. Operations should consolidate storage area, protect
                area from storm water, and direct runoff back to basement for reuse.</li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure that a dust collector system is utilized, as needed, to
                control fugitive dust from various operations to protect these materials from storm
                water impact, waste management concerns and air permit concerns.</li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">All plants shall develop and manage <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">oil management procedures</b>
            in compliance with the <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">EHS Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure Plan
              (SPCC)</b> and implement best management practices as required by specific job
            duties.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">All plants shall develop and manage <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">asbestos procedures</b> in
            compliance with the <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">EHS Asbestos Management Plan</b> guidance as required by specific
            job duties. The procedure shall include the following Batch House specific
              requirements:<ol id="ol_rzq_nqs_4zb" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">Follow “Do Not Disturb” instructions/signs near any asbestos
                containing materials commonly found in window caulking and paint at the Batch
                House.</li>
                  </ol>
                  <p class="- topic/p ">
                     <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Health</u>
                  </p>
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Respirable Crystalline
              Silica (RCS) is one of the most impactful health concerns relative to Space Batch
              Houses. RCS primarily comes from the sand portion of the batch mix, which can become
              airborne anytime the batch material is not contained and/or disturbed during the
              process, cleaning, or maintenance activities. Airborne concentrations must be
              evaluated and controls put in place according to the Global EHS Respirable Silica
              Fundamental EHS-06-004.</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Each facility shall conduct a respirable crystalline silica (RCS)
            exposure assessment to determine the potential for employee exposure to RCS. The
            assessment shall be based on the potential RCS airborne concentrations for the jobs and
            tasks of similar exposure groups (SEGs).</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Each facility shall prepare a sampling plan based upon the exposure
            assessment and the plan should cover planned sampling activities over the next 24 to 36
            months.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">The assessment and sampling plan must be completed by a person
            competent in the practice of industrial hygiene.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Each facility shall institute a RCS medical surveillance program for
            all employees who are routinely exposed (i.e., 30 days per year) over the occupational
            (OEL) based on the results from the exposure assessment and the sampling plan.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Each facility shall have an exposure control plan, or its equivalent.
            An example is shown in Appendix B6 of EHS-06-004. The written plan shall contain the
            following elements:<ol id="ol_sx3_qrs_4zb" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">A description of the workplace tasks that involve exposure to
                respirable crystalline silica.</li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">A description of the engineering controls, work practices, and
                respiratory protection used to limit employee exposure to respirable crystalline
                silica for each task.</li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">A description of the housekeeping measures used to limit employee
                exposure to respirable crystalline silica, such as not allowing dry sweeping or the
                use of compressed air, and the use of dust suppressant and vacuum systems with HEPA
                filter collection.</li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Regulated areas shall be established wherever exposure to airborne
            concentrations of RCS is (or can reasonably be expected to be) in excess of the
            local/regional legal exposure limit, as adjusted for extended shifts. The regulated area
            must be marked, have limited access, and proper PPE must be worn to enter, which will
            include proper respiratory protection.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Airborne RCS and accumulations of dust shall be reduced by following
            good housekeeping practices and reporting leaks/spills to a supervisor. When completing
            Batch House housekeeping, the following methods shall be employed in the following
            preferred order:<ol id="ol_bq1_zrs_4zb" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">High-efficiency particulate air filter (HEPA) vacuuming shall be
                the preferred method and shall be used where practical.<ol id="ol_un2_1ss_4zb" class="- topic/ol ">
                           <li class="- topic/li ">When central vacuum equipment is used, it should be evaluated
                    to confirm proper function following the form shown in Appendix B9 (or its
                    equivalent) shall be completed to evaluate the Batch House equipment
                    performance.</li>
                        </ol>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">If HEPA vacuuming is not practical, a wet method shall be
                  used.<ol id="ol_tzt_2ss_4zb" class="- topic/ol ">
                           <li class="- topic/li ">Floor sweep absorbents and other methods shall be applied.
                    DRY SWEEPING IS PROHIBITED!</li>
                        </ol>
                     </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">If the shoveling of material is necessary, respiratory protection
                and Tyvek (or a regional equivalent) coverall is required to keep dust off of
                clothing. To reduce potential dusting when shoveling, material shall be placed in a
                container or in a chute instead of forceful throwing.</li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">Compressed air shall not be used wherever it could disturb dust
                (i.e., not to clean or to blow off clothing).</li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">The hierarchy of controls must be followed relative to RCS exposure.
            Engineering controls must be considered before the use of PPE. The RCS fundamental
            contains an internal Engineering Design Standard for new batch projects of 25 µg/m3
            8-hour TWA. <p class="- topic/p ">Noise exposure in a Batch House is often greater than
              the applicable occupational exposure limits. Batch House employee are typically
              included in the site hearing conservation program. The requirements of the Hearing
              Conservation Program are contained in EHS-02-133.</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Each facility shall be complete an assessment and develop a sampling
            plan to evaluate employees potential exposure to noise in the Batch House and to
            identify employees for inclusion in the Hearing Conservation Program (HCP). All persons
            working in areas or with equipment that have noise levels equal to or exceeding 85
            decibels (dB) as an 8-hour time-weighted average (TWA), or any locally more stringent
            legal limit, must be included in the HCP.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Employees included in the HCP must receive medical surveillance and
            audiograms according to the Country Group or locally more stringent requirements. This
            typically includes initial tests and periodic retests such as annually.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">The hierarchy of controls must be followed when levels exceed 85 dBA
            or a locally more stringent limit. Engineering controls, followed by administrative
            controls must be considered before choosing PPE as the last choice. </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">When choosing hearing protection devices (HPDs), the site must
            document that hearing protection is adequate based on the assessed noise levels and the
            local legal requirements.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Signs must be posted indicating the need for PPE where HPDs are
            required. Signs must meet local legal requirements.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Employees must receive documented initial and annual noise training.
            Training shall include the risks of elevated noise exposure and proper use of hearing
            protection, at a minimum. <p class="- topic/p ">Respiratory protection is required in the
              Batch House when engineering and administrative controls fail to control RCS (and
              sometimes other contaminants) below occupational exposure limits and sometimes during
              the completion of specified tasks. The requirements of the Global Respiratory
              Protection Fundamental is contained in EHS-06-009.</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Each site must complete an assessment to determine where respiratory
            protection is required and select the proper respirators based upon that assessment. The
            assessment will take into account exposure monitoring that is completed as part of the
            sites IH assessment and sampling plan.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Before wearing a respirator, employees must receive a medical
            approval or fit for work certificate signifying the employee can wear a respirator in
            accordance to EHS-06-009.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Negative pressure respirators (i.e., filtering face piece, half and
            full face cartridge) respirators require the user to have a documented fit test before
            initial use and periodically after in accordance to EHS-06-009.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Each site must have a policy in place requiring that nothing
            (including facial hair) interfere with the seal of a negative pressure respirator. A
            positive pressure respirator (i.e., PAPR) that does not rely on a facial seal can be
            worn where compliance cannot be met with the use of a negative pressure respirator.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Respirators must be properly maintained, stored, discarded, and have
            a documented cartridge change schedule. The cartridge change schedule is based upon the
            contaminate levels in the work area and indicates when the cartridge should be
            changed.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">The requirement to wear a respirator must be posted on signs in the
            work area and/or work area entrance.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Employees must receive annual respiratory protection training that
            meets local regulatory requirements and the requirements contained in EHS-06-009.<p class="- topic/p ">Temperature extremes in a the Batch House varies based on the sites
              location and seasonal changes. Each site must assess the potential temperature
              extremes and implement actions as necessary in compliance with Heat Related Illness
              EHS-02-134.</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Each site must complete an assessment to identify employees and tasks
            that put employees at risk for heat stress. The assessment must meet the requirements
            contained in EHS-02-134 or the local legal requirements if more stringent. </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">A written site specific program should be available detailing how the
            site manages areas or tasks identified at risk during the assessment.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">When areas or tasks are identified at risk, then additional
            provisions for water consumption and cooling areas must be provided per EHS-02-134.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Medical surveillance must be implemented where there is a local legal
            requirement.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Documented training must be provided annually for all supervisors of
            employees and employees who have been identified at risk during the assessment. The
            training must cover, as a minimum, all of the topics contained in EHS-02-134 and as
            locally required. <p class="- topic/p ">The Batch House has a number of raw materials and
              other chemicals available for use with potentials for personal employee exposure and
              exposure to the environment. Each site must ensure the safe and proper use of
              hazardous and nonhazardous chemicals and must comply with locally applicable
              regulations addressing the storage and disposal of these chemicals, and the
              requirements contained in Chemical Management EHS-02-123.</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Each site must have a system in place to identify and review chemical
            uses for all existing and new chemicals. The assessment must take into account the
            safety of the chemical, potential exposure to employees, exposure to the environment,
            proper storage, and proper disposal. The review and assessment process must meet the
            requirements contained within EHS-02-123 and any local legal requirement.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">The site must have a current list of all chemical substance and a
            current SDS for each chemical. The list and SDSs must be available to employees.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Chemical containers must have proper labeling which complies with GHS
            (Global Harmonization System) requirements and/or according to local legal
            requirements.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Employees must receive annual training relative to the chemicals they
            work with, the assessments completed, PPE required, storage, disposal, and handling
            requirements in addition to any local legal training requirements. <p class="- topic/p ">The Batch House typically has a number of areas that are frequently and sometime
              infrequently visited for various tasks and at different lighting levels. Site lighting
              levels should be in compliance with Illumination OIES-L-001 or local requirements if
              more stringent.</p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Each site should review the Global Engineering lighting requirements
            in Illumination OIES-L-001. A plan should be in place to meet the minimum illumination
            requirements. A system must be in place to promptly replace faulty lighting fixtures and
            burnt out bulbs.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Illumination levels shall be reviewed and taken into account during
            all new installations.<p class="- topic/p ">
                     <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Safety</u>
                  </p>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">All Batch House personnel shall wear personal protection equipment
            (PPE), including, safety shoes, safety glasses and site specific equipment including,
            but not limited to head and respiratory protection. </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">All plants shall develop machine-specific energy isolation procedures
            for all applicable energy sources for the existing Batch House equipment and
            Lockout-Tagout procedures must be followed if maintenance or cleaning is to be
            performed. When it is not possible to isolate all energy sources, the plant shall use
            mechanical blocking devices and administrative procedure to ensure all body parts are
            protected from moving equipment and unexpected startup of equipment. The plants must
            meet or exceed the requirements in EHS-02-107-F006.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">All machines that currently have guards must have them installed and
            operational at all times while the equipment is running in normal production operations.
            Guards that are removed for maintenance or when troubleshooting the equipment must be
            reinstalled after completion of the maintenance task and before the equipment is
            returned to normal operations. For any equipment that does not have designed guards,
            administrative procedures must be visible and clearly understood. The plants must meet
            or exceed the requirements in EHS-02-122-F002.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">When working at heights or near wall or floor openings.<ol id="ol_ml1_wss_4zb" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">Risk Assessments must be completed when employees are working in
                a new area or performing non routine tasks.</li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">Fall protection devices must be used where the potential exists
                for an employee to fall at an unprotected height of 4 feet (1.2 meters) or
                higher.</li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure all proper fall protection equipment inspections and
                training are completed and documented.</li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure employees are using approved personal lifting devices tied
                off at all times.</li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">Completion of permits as identified by local plant programs.</li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">When working at heights, the plants must meet or exceed the
                requirements in EHS-02-103-F004.</li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">If roof access is required, the plants must meet or exceed the
                requirements in EHS-06-007.</li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">All Hot Work Operations including; Welding, Grinding, Cutting and
            Torching must meet or exceed the requirements in EHS-108-F002 and include the completion
            of the Hot Work Permit.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">All plants shall develop and manage a plan to ensure industrial
            equipment and site required vehicle traffic routes are clearly marked and understood.<ol id="ol_khn_zss_4zb" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">Ensure the layout of the workspace effectively separate
                pedestrians, vehicles and powered mobile equipment.</li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">Keep pedestrians and moving vehicles apart (for example, physical
                barriers, exclusion zones and safety zones).</li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">High visibility personal protective vest or clothing to be worn
                in areas where powered mobile equipment operate.</li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">Develop formal site specific training programs for traffic
                management.</li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">The plants must meet or exceed requirements in 02-115-F002.</li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Plant personnel shall have documented training records and a training
            plan for Batch House safety, which shall be reviewed annually by Human Resources (HR)
            and the department supervisor/manager.</li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Safety programs and procedures shall be implemented and practiced for
            all Batch House personnel that include, but are not limited to, the following:<ol id="ol_z1v_bts_4zb" class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li class="- topic/li ">No loose clothing, no jewelry, and no hair extending beyond the
                shoulder. Long hair should be tucked under the helmet/cap, or covered in a bandana. </li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">A qualified first aid responder and a first aid kit are located
                on site and available at all times. Injuries, incidents, and near misses shall be
                reported in a timely manner.</li>
                     <li class="- topic/li ">Batch House housekeeping program is implemented following the
                guidelines in Procedure BAT-02-004.</li>
                  </ol>
               </li>
               <li class="- topic/li ">Plant procedures shall address how contractors and visitors will be
            informed of, and comply with, the plant’s environmental, health and safety
            requirements.</li>
            </ol>
         </p>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
