<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us"
           id="r1DFD3DE-BB01-11F0-1484-09173F13E4C5"
           ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
           domains="(topic reference)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
           class="- topic/topic       reference/reference ">
   <title class="- topic/title ">Procedure</title>
   <prolog>
      <author>Suchitra</author>
      <critdates>
         <created date="2025-12-02T15:47:00+05:30"/>
         <revised modified="2025-12-02T15:47:00+05:30"/>
      </critdates>
      <metadata>
         <audience type="role" otherprops="plant-management,safety-compliance-officers,operations,maintenance-mro-staff,machine-operators"/>
         <keywords>
            <!-- Product layer -->
            <indexterm>metr-ehs-space</indexterm>
            <indexterm>permit-to-work-system</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lockout-tagout-equipment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hot-work-equipment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>confined-space-equipment</indexterm>
            <!-- Process layer -->
            <indexterm>standard-operating-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>hazard-identification</indexterm>
            <indexterm>risk-assessment</indexterm>
            <indexterm>permit-to-work</indexterm>
            <indexterm>lockout-tagout</indexterm>
            <!-- Context layer -->
            <indexterm>preventive-maintenance</indexterm>
            <indexterm>production-shutdown-procedure</indexterm>
            <indexterm>plant-floor-safety</indexterm>
            <indexterm>maintenance-mro-operations</indexterm>
            <indexterm>worker-safety-training</indexterm>
         </keywords>
         <prodinfo>
            <prodname>metR-EHS-Space</prodname>
            <platform>web</platform>
         </prodinfo>
         <othermeta name="title" content="Procedure"/>
         <othermeta name="shortdesc" content="Stepwise operating and safety procedures for plant operations, maintenance activities and risk controls."/>
         <othermeta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
         <othermeta name="version" content="1.0.0"/>
         <othermeta name="docStage" content="approved"/>
         <othermeta name="access.role" content="internal"/>
         <othermeta name="data.classification" content="non-sensitive"/>
         <othermeta name="retention.policy" content="standard-36m"/>
         <othermeta name="entities" content="lockout-tagout;permit-to-work;hot-work-equipment;confined-space-entry;inspection-checklist"/>
         <othermeta name="taxonomy" content="domain:ehs;usecase:operational-procedure;industry:glass manufacturing heavy machinery and industrial equipment"/>
         <othermeta name="tags" content="sop,hazard-assessment,permit-to-work,lockout-tagout,maintenance"/>
         <othermeta name="usecase" content="document safe-work procedures for operations and maintenance activities"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   
   <refbody class="- topic/body        reference/refbody ">
      <section class="- topic/section ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">Chemical Inventory and New Chemicals<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Form EHS-02-123-F002 New Chemical Request, or equivalent process, shall be
                     completed before receiving any new chemicals on site.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">A complete list of all chemicals in use or stored at the site shall be maintained
                     using Form EHS-02-123-F001 Chemical Inventory Log, or equivalent. The list
                     shall be updated on an ongoing basis as new materials are introduced.<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Discontinued chemicals (i.e., chemicals no longer in use) shall remain
                           on the inventory list with indication of their status.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Safety Data Sheets<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">A Safety Data Sheet (SDS) for each chemical used at the site shall be accessible at all times to every employee. This requirement may be met by maintaining hard copies of the SDSs, maintaining electronic copies of the SDSs, or through a subscription to a “SDS Fax on Demand” service, or equivalent.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">When the use of a chemical is discontinued at the site, the SDS for that material shall be removed from the active SDS manual or electronic database. The SDS must be placed in a specific file containing all SDSs for materials no longer in use. These sheets must be maintained by the plant for a period required by local legislation.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Safety Data Sheets shall include the following information: <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Product identity, </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Physical and chemical characteristics, </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Physical and health hazard, </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Routes of entry or exposure, </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Exposure limits, </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Carcinogenicity potential, </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Precautions for handling and use, </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Applicable control measures, </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Emergency and first aid procedures, </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Date of preparation and / or change, and </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Preparer and where additional information may be obtained.</li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Labeling<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Every chemical container (i.e., hazardous and non-hazardous, original container
                  and satellite container) shall be labeled, tagged, or marked in the local language
                  to identify the contents.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Each original or main container of hazardous chemicals at the site shall be
                  labeled with the identity of the chemical it holds and warnings about the physical
                  and/or health hazards associated with it. The labeling warning may use words,
                  pictures, symbols, numbers or colors to identify the hazards, as long as it is
                  effective and in line with the Globally Harmonized System (GHS).<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The manufacturer must properly label the original containers.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The chemical manufacturer, importer, or distributor shall ensure that each
                        container of hazardous chemicals leaving the workplace is labeled, tagged or
                        marked with the following information: <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li "> Identity of the hazardous chemical(s); </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li "> Appropriate hazard warnings; and </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Name and address of the chemical manufacturer, importer, or other
                              responsible party.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Each small, portable or satellite container of hazardous chemicals shall be
                        labeled with the following information: <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Identity of the hazardous chemical(s) </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Associated hazards</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Storage of Chemicals<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Chemical storage areas shall be designated by the EHS Manager or supervisor and communicated with employees who work in those areas. In general, chemicals must not be stored in any office areas or in chemical fume hoods. Incompatible chemicals or materials shall be separated by adequate distance or preferably by physical barriers (e.g., storage cabinets). Consult specific SDSs for proper storage requirements.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Chemicals shall be stored in suitable containers that will not deteriorate over time (e.g., corrosion) or release the contents (e.g., escaping vapors).</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Chemicals shall be disposed based on, but not limited to, the following criteria:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Material has exceeded its shelf life</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Caps are deteriorating or the container is leaking</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Container has inadequate hazard information</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Content is a waste material </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The following precautions shall be taken when storing chemicals:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Acids
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Acids shall be stored on low shelf areas, or in acid cabinets. Oxidizing acids must be segregated from organic acids and flammable materials. Acids must also be segregated from bases, and from active metals such as sodium, potassium, etc. Acids must be segregated from chemicals which could generate toxic gases such as sodium cyanide, iron sulfide, etc.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Bases
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Bases shall be segregated from acids and stored on low shelf areas or in a proper cabinet.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Flammables
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Flammables shall be stored in approved flammable storage cabinets or containers according to local legislative requirements. Flammables should be stored separate from oxidizing acids and oxidizers and should be kept away from sources of ignition (i.e., open flames, localized heat or sparks).</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Oxidizers
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Oxidizers shall be kept away from flammables, organic solvents, and other combustible materials (i.e., paper, wood, etc.) as well as reducing agents. Oxidizers should be stored in a cool, dry place.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Peroxide-Forming Chemicals
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Peroxide-forming chemicals shall not be stored for longer than their expected date of initial peroxide formation. Containers should be labeled with receiving, opening, and disposal dates. Peroxide-forming chemicals must be stored in airtight containers in a dark, cool, and dry place.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Pyrophoric Substances
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Pyrophoric substances shall be stored away from flammables and in a cool, dry place. Containers must rigorously exclude air and water.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Water Reactive Chemicals
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Water reactive chemicals shall be stored away from flammables and in a cool, dry place. Air and water must be rigorously avoided.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Highly Toxic Chemicals, Carcinogens, and Reproductive Toxins
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Liquids shall be sealed tightly and stored in a ventilated cabinet apart from incompatibles. 
                        </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Gases shall be stored in a gas cabinet or other ventilated cabinet.</li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Solids shall be stored away from incompatibles that would release toxic gases upon contact.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Compressed and Liquefied Gases
                     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Compressed gas cylinders shall be labeled properly and stored in a secure, designated area. </li>
                              <li class="- topic/li ">Cylinders shall be physically chained or strapped to a fixed source to prevent injury or property damage.</li>
                           </ol>
                        </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Personal Protective Equipment and Job Hazard Analysis<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">A Job Hazard Analysis (Risk Assessment) and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Assessment shall be completed for tasks where employees work with and around chemicals, especially hazardous chemicals.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Personal Exposure Assessment &amp; Monitoring<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Personal monitoring shall be conducted by the EHS Manager or a certified Industrial Hygienist, or other parties accredited according to local legislation, if there is reason to believe that exposure levels for a substance exceeds the action level (or in the absence of an action level, the permissible exposure limit). Examples where personal monitoring may be conducted include: <ol class="- topic/ol ">
                        <li class="- topic/li ">The Job Hazard Analysis is not conclusive concerning the potential exposure of employees.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">It is necessary to verify the correct functioning of engineering controls.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Personnel express concerns associated with possible chemical exposure.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Volatile chemicals are not used in a fume hood.</li>
                        <li class="- topic/li ">Personnel develop signs or symptoms associated with possible hazardous chemical exposure. </li>
                     </ol>
                  </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The initiation, frequency, and termination of personal monitoring are done in accordance with the relevant regulation. </li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Monitoring results shall be provided to employees when they are received, without waiting.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">The EHS Manager shall maintain copies of exposure monitoring per the regulatory requirement and employees will have access to these records as needed.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Sharing of Information<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">If appropriate, the site shall notify the local fire department/medical services provider of hazardous chemicals and other dangerous chemicals being stored and used, and shall review the SDSs for these chemicals with those officials. A plant tour showing the location of hazardous chemicals may be beneficial.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">Contractors<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Contractors shall be informed of any hazardous materials used at the site or near the area in which they will be working prior to beginning work. Safety Data Sheets must be available to them before work is begun.</li>
                  <li class="- topic/li ">Contractors shall provide information on hazardous materials or conflicting materials which they will be using at the site prior to beginning work.</li>
               </ol>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
